Translation from Finnish 
Legally  binding only in Finnish  and Swedish 
Ministry  of Employment and the Economy, Finland 

Annual Holidays Act 
(162/2005; amendments up to 346/2019 included) 

Chapter 1 
General  Provisions 

Section 1 
Scope of application 

(1)  Unless  otherwise provided by law, this Act applies  to all  work carried out as part of an 

employment relationship or public-service relationship. 

(2)  The Act’s provisions concerning employees also apply to public officials  in central and local 
government. The provisions on collective agreements correspondingly also apply to 
collective agreements for public officials  in central and local  government. 

(3)  The provisions in sections 6(2), 8(2), 10(3) and (4), and 11(1) and (3) on employment 
contracts also apply to arrangements governing the working hours of public officials  in 
central and local  government. 

Section 2 
Limitations  to the scope of application 

(1)  This Act does not apply to work that, on account of the nature of the employer’s 

operations, is  interrupted each year and in which the employees are, under an agreement 
referred to in section 30, entitled to paid leave that is at least  equivalent to the annual 
holiday provided for in this Act. 

(2)  Employees working at home referred to in section 2(1)(3) of the Working Hours Act  

(605/1996) are, in  lieu  of annual holiday and holiday pay, entitled to the leave referred to in 
section 8(1) and to holiday compensation referred to in section 16 of this Act. The same 
applies  to an employer’s family  members when there are no other employees working for 
the employer. 

Section 3 
Peremptory nature of the provisions 

Any agreement reducing the benefits that an employee is  entitled  to under this Act is null  and 
void unless  otherwise provided in this Act. Provisions on the right of employers’ and emp loyees’ 
national associations to deviate from the Act by collective agreements are contained in section 
30. 

 
2 

Section 4 
Definitions 

For the purposes of this Act: 

1) the holiday credit year means the period from 1 April  to 31 March inclusive; 
2) the holiday season  means the period from 2 May to 30 September inclusive; 
3) a weekday  means a day other than Sundays, church festivals, Independence Day, Christmas 

Eve, Midsummer Eve, Easter Saturday and the First of May. 

Chapter 2 
Length of annual holiday 

Section 5 
Earning  annual  holiday 

(1)  An employee is entitled  to two and a half  weekdays of holiday for each full  holiday credit 

month. However, the entitlement is two weekdays of holiday for each full  holiday credit 
month if, by the end of the holiday credit year, the duration of the employment 
relationship  has been an uninterrupted period of less  than one year. When the number of 
days holiday is  calculated, any fraction of a day is rounded up to constitute one full  day of 
holiday. 

(2)  The earning of annual holiday shall  continue uninterrupted if  the employee transfers 

directly to the service of an employer which, on the basis of ownership, agreement or 
some other arrangement, is  controlled by: 

1) the previous employer; 
2) one or more persons who have a close relationship  with the previous employer as 
referred to in section 3 of the Act on the Recovery of Property to the Estate of a 
Bankrupted Person (758/1991); or 

3) persons referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 together. 

(3)  The period during which employment is suspended because the employee is do ing active 
military  service referred to in the Conscription Act (1438/2007), voluntary military service 
referred to in the Act on Women’s Voluntary Military  Service (194/1995) or non -military 
service referred to in  the Non-Military  Service Act (1446/2007) is not included in the 
period of uninterrupted employment referred to in subsection 1 above. (1448/2007) 

Section 6 
Full  holiday  credit  month 

(1)  A calendar month during which an employee has accumulated at least 14 days at work or 
the equivalent of days at work, as referred to in section 7(1) and (2), is considered to be a 
full  holiday credit month. 

 
3 

(2)  If,  in accordance with the employee’s contract, the employee works on so few  days that he 
or she does not therefore accumulate 14 days at work in  any month or accum ulates 14 
days at work in only some of the calendar months, a full  holiday credit month is considered 
to be a calendar month during which the employee has accumulated at least  35 hours at 
work or the equivalent of hours at work as referred to in section 7. 

Section 7 
Period  equivalent  to time  at work 

(1)  Any period of absence from work for which the employer is  by law obliged to pay the 

employee is considered to be a period equivalent to time at work. Any period during which 
an employee is absent from work because of time off granted for the purpose of adjusting 
working hours to ensure that his  or her average weekly working hours do not exceed the 
statutory maximum is also considered to be a period equivalent to time at work. However, 
of the days off granted to adjust weekly working hours during one particular calendar 
month, only those days off in excess of four are considered to be equivalent to time at 
work, unless the leave has been granted as an uninterrupted period of more than six 
weekdays. 

(2)  During an employment relationship, those working days and working hours when the 

employee has been unable to work for the reasons set out below are also considered to be 
equivalent of days at work: 

special  maternity leave, temporary child-care leave, and absence for compelling 

illness  or accident, in which case the maximum is 75 working days in one holiday 

1) 
family  reasons laid  down in Chapter 4, sections 1, 6 and 7 of the Employment Contracts 
Act (55/2001) respectively, or a total of at most 156 days of maternity and parental leave 
and correspondingly 156 days of paternity and parental leave per one childbirth or 
adoption; (182/2016) 
2) 
credit year; even if  the incapacity continues uninterrupted into the next holiday credit 
year, the maximum total for the illness  or accident will  be 75 working days; 
3) 
medical  rehabilitation  prescribed by a doctor for treating an occupational disease 
or an accident and aimed at restoring or preserving working capacity, in which case the 
maximum is 75 working days during one holiday credit year; even if  the rehabilitation 
continues uninterrupted into the next holiday credit year, the maximum total for the 
rehabilitation  period will  be 75 working days; 
4) 
an order issued by the authorities  aimed at preventing a disease  from spreading; 
study leave referred to in the Study Leave Act (273/1979), in which case the 
5) 
maximum is 30 working days during one holiday credit year and only if  the employee has 
returned to work immediately  after the study leave; 
6) 
in which case the employer and the employee may agree that only 30 working days at a 
time can be equivalent to days at work; 
7) 
lay-offs, in which case the maximum is  30 working days at a time; 
shortened working weeks equivalent to lay-offs or other comparable working-hour 
8) 
arrangements, in  which case the maximum is six months at a time; if  such working -hours 

participation in training required for the job and with the consent of the employer, 

 
4 

reserve training or extra service, or supplementary service referred to in section 

arrangements continue interrupted after the end of the holiday credit year, a new six 
month period is calculated from the start of the new holiday credit year; 
9) 
58 or extra service referred to in section 64 of the Non-Military  Service Act; or 
(1448/2007) 
10) 
which, by law,  may not be refused or which may only be refused for special  reasons laid 
down by law. 

carrying out of public duties of an elected official  or appearance as a witness, 

(3)  When applying subsection 2 to employees referred to in section 6(2), the period equivalent 

to time at work is  considered to be a maximum of 182 calendar days in cases referred to 
in subsection 2(1), a maximum of 105 calendar days in  cases referred to in subsection 
2(2) and (3), and a maximum of 42 calendar days in  cases referred to in subsection 2(5) 
and (7). When the period of absence is calculated, the absence is considered to have 
started on the first day on which the employee was absent from work and to have ended 
on the day on which the grounds for absence expired if  the date was agreed or 
determined in advance, and in other cases on the day of absence preceding the return to 
work. In these cases, the hours that the employee would, in accordance with his or her 
contract, have spent at work had he or she not been absent are considered to be hours 
equivalent to hours at work. (182/2016) 

Section 7 a (346/2019) *  
Right to additional  leave days to supplement the employee’s annual holiday to compensate for 
periods of absence from work due to sickness, accident or medical  rehabilitation    

An employee shall  be entitled to additional  leave days to supplement their annual holiday if  they 
have not earned at least 24 annual leave days during a full  leave-earning year because of 
absence from work referred to in section 7, subsection 2, paragraph 2 or 3. However, the 
entitlement to additional  leave will  cease after 12 months of uninterrupted absence. Absence is 
interrupted by days or hours at work in between periods of absence that entitle  to a full  leave-
earning month. Meanwhile  absence is  not interrupted by days or hours at work during which 
the employee’s work is  based on an agreement for part-time work referred to in chapter 2, 
section 11 a of the Employment Contracts Act.  

The employee shall  be entitled to a remuneration corresponding to their regular or average 
wage for the additional  leave days.  

The provisions of granting annual leave shall  apply to the granting of additional  leave days. 
Provisions concerning the time at which holiday pay and holiday compensation are paid shall 
apply to the remuneration payable for additional  leave days. 

Section 8 
The employee’s  right  to be given  leave 

(1)  An employee who, in accordance with his  or her contract, works for less  than 14 days or35 

hours during all  calendar months is, during the employment relationship,  entitled  to two 

 
5 

weekdays of leave for each calendar month in which the employment relationship has 
been in force if  he or she so desires.  Provisions on the holiday compensation payable for 
such a period of leave are contained in sections 16 and 19. 

(2)  An employee who has worked for the same employer under repeated fixed-term 

employment contracts in the manner referred to in Chapter 1, section 5 of the 
Employment Contracts Act, is entitled  to take leave equivalent to the holiday determined 
under sections 5-7 of this Act, to the extent that such holiday has not been taken, if  he or 
she so desires. 

(3)  The employee must give notification of his  or her desire to take leave before the start of 

the holiday season. The provisions in sections 20-26 on the granting of annual holiday 
shall  be observed in the granting of leave, as applicable. 

Chapter 3 
Holiday pay 

Section 9 
General  provision  on holiday  pay  

(1)  An employee has the right to receive at least  his or her regular or average pay for the time 

of his or her annual holiday, as laid  down in this Act. 

(2)  Fringe benefits included in the pay must be given in full  during the period of annual 

holiday. Fringe benefits that are not available  to the employee during the period of annual 
holiday are paid as monetary compensation instead. 

Section 10 (276/2013) 
Holiday  pay based  on weekly  or monthly pay  

(1)  An employee whose pay has been agreed on a weekly basis  or on the basis of a longer 

period also  has the right to receive this pay for the period of his/her annual holiday. If, for 
the time at work during the holiday credit year, the employee has, in  addition to weekly or 
monthly pay, received or is  due other pay that is not related to temporary conditions, this 
shall  be included in  the holiday pay calculation as laid  down in section 11(1) and (2). 

(2)  If  an employee is not on annual holiday for the whole pay period, the pay for the time on 

holiday is  calculated on a pro rata basis  in relation  to the time spent at work, ensuring that 
it is  equivalent to the pay otherwise given to the employee for a corresponding period. 

(3)  If  an employee referred to in section 6(2) above has, in accordance with the employee’s 

contract, so few working hours that for this reason not all  calendar months are full  holiday 
credit months, his or her holiday pay is  calculated as laid  down in section 12. 

(4)  Holiday pay shall  also be calculated according to section 12, when the employee’s working 
time and correspondingly his or her salary has changed significantly  during the holiday 
credit year.  If  changes have only taken place after the holiday credit year has come to an 

 
6 

end, but before the employee goes on his or her annual holiday or part of their holiday 
leave, holiday pay shall  be calculated according to the employee’s working time and 
weekly or monthly salary during the previous holiday credit year. 

Section 11 
Holiday  pay based  on average  daily  pay  

(1)  The holiday pay of an employee who is  not receiving weekly or monthly pay and who, in 
accordance with an agreement, works at least 14 days per calendar month, is calculated 
by multiplying his or her average daily pay by a multiplier  determined according to the 
number of days holiday: 

Number of days holiday  Multiplier 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 

1.8 
2.7 
3.6 
4.5 
5.4 
6.3 
7.2 
8.1 
9.0 
9.9 
10.8 
11.8 
12.7 
13.6 
14.5 
15.5 
16.4 
17.4 
18.3 
19.3 
20.3 
21.3 
22.2 
23.2 
24.1 
25.0 
25.9 
26.9 
27.8 

7 

(2)  If  the number of days holiday exceeds 30, the multiplier  is increased by 0.9 for each day 

of holiday. 

(3)  The average daily pay is  calculated such that the pay received by the employee, or his or 
her pay in arrears, for the time at work during the holiday credit year, excluding any sum 
payable for emergency overtime work and statutory or agreed overtime work on top of 
basic pay, is divided by the number of days worked during the holiday credit year, to 
which is  added one-eighth of the hours at work in excess of statutory regular daily working 
hours or, if  there are no legal  provisions on the maximum regular daily working hours, 
one-eighth of the hours at work in excess of agreed regular working hours. 

(4)  If,  in accordance with the employ ee’s contract, the employee’s weekly working days 

number less  than or more than five, the average daily pay is multiplied  by the number of 
weekly working days and divided by five. 

Section 12 
Percentage-based  holiday  pay 

(1)  The holiday pay of an employee working fewer than 14 days per calendar month and not 
receiving weekly or monthly pay is 9 per cent or, if  the employment relationship  has lasted 
for at least  one year by the end of the holiday credit year preceding the holiday season, 
11.5 per cent, of the pay  received, or pay in arrears, for the time at work during the 
holiday credit year, excluding any sum payable for emergency overtime work and statutory 
or agreed overtime work. 

(2)  If  the employee has been unable to work during the holiday credit year for reaso ns 

referred to in section 7(2)(1-4) or 7(2)(7), the calculated amount of unreceived pay for the 
period of absence is  added to the pay used as a basis for calculating  holiday pay, the 
maximum period being that laid  down in section 7(3). Unless otherwise agreed, the pay 
for the period of absence is  calculated on the basis of the employee’s average weekly 
working hours and his or her pay at the start of the period of absence, taking into account 
any pay rises  introduced during the period of absence. If there has been no agreement on 
the average weekly working hours, the calculated pay is  determined on the basis  of the 
average weekly working hours during the 12 weeks preceding the absence. 

Section 13 
Annual  holiday  pay based  on service  charges 

If  it has been agreed that the remuneration for work is  partly or wholly in the form of service 
charges received from the public, these will  be included in the calculation of holiday pay, pay 
for carried-over holiday and holiday compensation. The holiday pay payable on t he basis  of 
service charges is calculated in the manner laid  down in sections 9-12. 

Section 14 
Determining  the holiday  pay calculation  method 

 
8 

(1)  The holiday pay calculation method is determined in accordance with sections 10 -12 on 

the basis of the payment system applied to the employee at the end of the holiday credit 
year. 

(2)  If  the employee was receiving monthly pay before the start of the holiday, the employer 

and the employee may, notwithstanding the provisions in subsection 1, agree that the 
holiday pay for each period of holiday will  be calculated on the basis  of the monthly pay 
otherwise paid to the employee. The agreement must be in writing. 

(3)  If,  for part of the holiday credit year the employee has been earning holiday in accordance 
with section 6 and for part of the year has come under the leave arrangements referred to 
in section 8(1), the holiday pay and holiday compensation for the time spent on holiday 
and on leave, respectively, are calculated separately for each period. 

Section 15 
Payment of holiday  pay 

Holiday pay must be paid before the start of the holiday. For a holiday period not exceeding six 
days, the holiday pay may be given on the employee’s normal pay day. 

Chapter 4 
Holiday compensation 

Section 16 
Holiday  compensation  during  an employment  relationship 

An employee referred to in section 8(1) above is entitled  to receive as holiday compensation 9 
per cent, or, if  the employment relationship has lasted for at least  one year by the end of the 
holiday credit year preceding the holiday season, 11.5 per cent, of his or her pay, or pay in 
arrears, for the time at work during the holiday credit year, excluding any sum payable for 
emergency overtime work and statutory or agreed overtime work. If  the employee has been 
unable to work on account of maternity, special  maternity, paternity or parental leave, the pay 
not received during the period of absence is added to the pay used as a basis  for calculating the 
holiday compensation, as laid  down in section 12(2). 

Section 17 
Holiday  compensation  at the end of an employment  relationship 

(1)  At the end of an employment relationship,  the employee is  entitled to holiday 
compensation instead of annual holiday for any holiday entitlement or holiday 
compensation earned but not yet received. If  the employment relationship  has lasted at 
least  one year by the time it ends, the employee is entitled  to holiday compensation from 
the start of the current holiday credit year for a period equivalent to the amount of holiday 
determined in accordance with the first sentence of section 5(1). 

 
9 

(2)  If,  in the first and last  month of the employment relationship, the employee has 

accumulated a total number of days or hours at work, or a period equivalent to them, 
equal to the amount laid  down in  section 6 and 7 and has not been granted any holiday or 
holiday compensation for these months, then these months are each considered to 
constitute one full  holiday credit month when the holiday compensation is determined. 

(3)  Holiday compensation is calculated in compliance with the holiday pay provisions in 

sections 9-12, as applicable.  The employee's pay per holiday day shall  be calculated as 
follows:  a divisor of 6 shall  be used for those employees with weekly salaries  and a divisor 
of 25 for those earning monthly salaries.  (276/2013) 

(4)  An employee who, at the end of the employment relationship,  has not accrued holiday 
entitlement under sections 5-7, is entitled  to an amount of holiday compensation 
calculated as laid  down in section 16. 

Section 18 
Agreement  on transferring  annual  holiday  benefits 

When agreeing on a new employment relationship before the end of the current employment 
relationship,  the employer and the employee may agree that the annual holiday benefits 
accrued by the employee before the end of the current employment relationship will  be 
transferred to be granted during the new employment relationship.  The agreement must be in 
writing. 

Section 19 
Payment of holiday  compensation 

(1)  An employee exercising his  or her right to take the leave referred to in section 8(1) is  paid 
holiday compensation under section 16 for this leave and in the manner laid  down in 
section 15. Holiday compensation is otherwise paid no later than the end of the holiday 
season. 

(2)  When an employee goes to do military service, voluntary military service or non-military 

service, he or she is paid holiday compensation determined in accordance with section 17, 
even if  his or her employment relationship  is continuing. 

Chapter 5 
Granting annual holiday 

Section 20 
Time  of granting  annual  holiday  

(1)  An employee is granted annual holiday at a time determined by the employer, unless  the 

employer and the employee agree on arranging the holiday in the manner referred to in 
section 21. 

 
10 

(2)  A total of 24 weekdays of the annual holiday must be taken in the holiday season 

(summer holiday).  The rest of the holiday (winter holiday)  must be granted by the start 
of the following  holiday season. Summer holiday and winter holiday must each be granted 
as uninterrupted periods unless, for work continuity reasons, it is  essential  to divide the 
portion of the summer holiday exceeding 12 weekdays into one or more parts. 

(3)  If  the granting of a holiday during the holiday season results in substantial difficulties  for 
the employer’s operations in seasonal  work, the summer holiday may be granted outside 
the holiday season during the same calendar year. 

Section 21 
Agreeing  on the division  and timing  of the annual  holiday  during an  employment relationship  

(1)  The employer and the employee may agree that the employee will  take the portion of the 

holiday that exceeds 12 weekdays in one or more periods. 

(2)  The employer and the employee may agree on setting the annual holiday in a period that 

starts at the beginning of the calendar year which includes the holiday season and ends 
the following  year before the start of the holiday season. Furthermore, an agreement can 
also be made on the taking of the portion of the holiday exceeding 12 weekdays within 
one year of the end of the holiday season. 

(3)  If  the employee’s employment relationship  ends before he or she is  entitled to take annual 
holiday as laid  down in section 20, the employer and the employee may agree that the 
employee can take the annual holiday earned up to the end of his  or her employment 
relationship  before the employment relationship  ends. 

(4)  On the initiative  of the employee, the employer and the employee may agree on 

converting the amount of annual holiday in  excess of 24 weekdays into shortened working 
hours. The agreement must be in writing. 

Section 22 
Consulting  the employees 

The  employer must explain  to the  employees or  their  representatives  the general  principles 
observed at the workplace in the granting of annual holidays. Before determining the timing of 
the holiday, the employer must grant the employees an opportunity to express their  views on 
the matter. The employer must, as  far  as possible,  take  the proposals  of the employees into 
consideration and observe impartiality  in the timing of the holidays. 

Section 23 
Giving  notification  of the timing  of the annual  holiday  

When determining the timing of the holiday, the employer must notify the employees of this no 
later than one month before the start of the holiday. If  this is not possible,  notification of the 
timing of the holiday may be given at a later date. However, the notification must be given at 
least  two weeks before the start of the holiday. 

11 

Section 24 
Arranging  annual  holiday  during  an employee’s  time  off 

(1)  The employer may not, without the consent of the employee, determine that the annual 

holiday will  start on an employee’s day off if  this would mean a reduction in the number of 
days holiday for the employee. An amount of holiday that is three days or less  may not, 
without the consent of the employee, be granted if  a day of that holiday would fall  on a 
day on which the employee, under his or her duty schedule, has a day off. 

(2)  The employer may not, without the consent of the employee, determine that the annual 

holiday will  take place at the same time as the employee’s maternity or paternity leave. If, 
because of maternity or paternity leave, the employee’s annual holiday cannot be granted 
in the manner referred to in section 20 or 21, the holiday may be granted within six 
months of the end of the leave. 

Section 25 (182/2016) 
Incapacity  for work  at the start of and during  annual  holidays 

(1)  If  an employee, at the start of his or her annual holiday or part of it, is incapacitated 

because of childbirth, illness  or accident, the holiday must, at the request of the employee, 
be postponed to a later date. The employee also has, at his or her request, the right to 
have the holiday or part of it postponed if it  is known that during his or her holiday the 
employee has to receive medical treatment or other comparable treatment during which 
he or she will  be incapacitated. 

(2)  If  an employee’s incapacity for work due to childbirth, illness  or accident begins during 

annual holiday or part of it, the employee has the right, at his or her request, to have the 
days when he or she has been incapacitated for work included in the annual holiday that 
exceed six holiday days postponed to a later  date. The above mentioned waiting  days 
must not decrease the employee’s right to a four-week annual holiday. 

(3)  An employee does not, however, have the right to have his or her holiday postponed when 

he or she has caused the incapacity intentionally  or through gross negligence. 

(4)  The request to postpone annual holiday must be made to the employer without delay, and 
the employee must, at the request of the employer, present a reliable  account of his or 
her incapacity for work. 

Section 26 (346/2019) 
Timing  of annual  holiday  postponed because  of incapacity  for work 

(1)  A summer holiday postponed under the provisions of section 25 above must be granted 

during the holiday season, and winter holiday before the start of the following  holiday 
season. If  such granting of holiday is not possible,  holiday must be granted during the 
holiday period in the calendar year following  the original  holiday period, but no later  than 
by the end of that calendar year. If,  because of a continuing incapacity for work, the 

12 

granting of the holiday is  not possible in  the manner referred to above either, the holiday 
not granted is  replaced with holiday compensation referred to in section 17. 

(2)  The employer must give notification of the timing of the postponed holiday no later  than 

two weeks, or if  this is  not possible,  one week, before the start of the holiday. 

Section 27 
Carrying over annual  holiday  

(1)  The employer and the employee may agree that the portion of the holiday that exceeds 18 
days will  be taken during the following  holiday season or thereafter as carried–over 
holiday. The employee has the right to carry over any portion of his or her holiday 
exceeding 24 days, provided that this does not cause any serious harm to the production 
and service operations at the workplace. 

(2)  The employer and the employee must negotiate about the carrying over of annual holiday 
and the number of days of holiday to be carried over no later than the time the employer 
consults the employees about the timing of the annual holiday, as laid  down in section 22. 

(3)  The carried-over holiday must be granted to the employee in the calendar year or years 

that he or she decides. If  it is  not possible  to agree on a more precise timing of carried 
over holiday, the employee must give notification about taking the carried -over holiday no 
later than four months before it starts. Provisions on the postponing of annual holiday and 
the granting of postponed holiday in sections 25 and 26 also  apply to carried -over holiday. 

(4)  An employee whose pay is determined in  accordance with section 10 has the right to 
receive this pay for the time of the carried-over holiday. If the employee’s pay is 
determined in accordance with sections 11 or 12, the pay payable to him or her for the 
time of the carried-over holiday is  determined in accordance with the pay of the holiday 
credit year preceding the start date of the carried-over holiday or part of it. At the end of 
the employment relationship, or when the employment relationship is  put on a part -time 
basis  or the employee is laid-off  without further notice, the employee is entitled  to 
compensation for carried-over holiday not taken, as laid  down in  section 17. 

Chapter 6 
Miscellaneous  provisions 

Section 28 (346/2019) 
Holiday  pay statement 

When paying holiday  pay or the remuneration referred to in  this Act, the employer must give 
the employee a statement detailing  the amount of holiday pay or remuneration, and the basis 
on which it was determined. 

Section 29  
Keeping  records of annual  holidays 

 
13 

(1)  The employer must keep records of the employee’s annual holidays, any supplementing 
additional  leave days and carried-over holidays, and of the holiday pay and holiday 
compensation determined on the basis of this Act (annual holiday records). The annual 
holiday records must show the duration and dates of the annual holidays, the number and 
dates of additional  leave days, the amount of holiday pay and holiday compensation, and 
the basis on which they are determined. (346/2019) 

(2)  The annual holiday records and written agreements concluded between the employer and 

the employee under this Act must be shown on request to the body carrying out 
occupational safety inspection, the employees’ shop steward or the elected representative 
chosen in accordance with Chapter 13, section 3 of the Employment Contracts Act or, if 
neither has been elected, to the occupational safety delegate. The employee or anybody 
authorized by him or her has the right, on request, to receive written details  of the records 
of the employee’s annual holiday and carried-over holiday. 

(3)  The annual holiday records must be kept at least until  the end of the claim  period laid 

down in section 34. 

Section 30 
Deviating  by collective  agreement 

(1)  The employers’ and employees’ national associations have the right to agree otherwise on 
the holiday season, the calculation  and payment of holiday pay and holiday compensation, 
making winter holiday part of other arrangements concerning shortened working hours 
which they have agreed on, carried-over holidays and the provisions of section 8(2). A 
collective agreement between these associations may also include agreement on dividing 
the portion of annual holiday exceeding 12 weekdays in  such a way that it can be taken in 
one or more parts and on the period equivalent to time at work as laid  down in section 7, 
provided that the duration of employees’ annual holidays is equal to that laid  down in this 
Act. However, the provisions of section 7(2)(1) may not be deviated from by any 
agreement to the detriment of employees. Furthermore, national collective agreements for 
public officials  in  central and local government may include an agreement on the period of 
notice to be observed in the transfer or interruption of a public official’s  annual holiday, 
and on the grounds for interrupting a holiday when the transfer or interruption is 
necessary for weighty reasons connected with the exercise of government authority or 
essential  for carrying out the statutory health and safety -related tasks of a public body. 
(182/2016) 

(2)  An employer may also apply the provisions of collective agreements referred to in 

subsection 1 above in employment relationships of those employees who are not bound by 
collective agreements but in whose employment relationships the employer is required, 
under the Collective Agreements Act (436/1946), to apply the provisions of collective 
agreements. In those employment relationships  in which it is  permitted to apply the 
provisions of a collective agreement still  in force, and if  so agreed in the employment 
contract, the provisions of a collective agreement referred to above may continue to be 

 
14 

applied  after the collective agreement expires and until the entry into force of a new 
collective agreement. 

(3)  The provisions in this section on an employer’s national association correspondingly also 
apply to a Government negotiating authority or other Government agreement authority, 
the Commission for Local Authority Employers, the Church of Finland  Negotiating 
Commission, the Orthodox Church of Finland, the Provincial Government of Åland and the 
Municipal  Delegation for Collective Agreements of the Province of Åland. The collective 
agreements referred to in this section may be concluded by the parties referred to section 
46(1) of the Act on Parliamentary Public Officials  (1197/2003) in the case of Parliament, 
the parties referred in section 42(1) of the Act on  Public Officials  of the Bank of Finland 
(1166/1998) in the case of the Bank of Finland,  and the parties referred to in section 11(2) 
of the Act on the Social Insurance Institution of Finland  (731/2001) in the case of the 
Social Insurance Institution. 

Section 31 
Provisions  deviating  from the law  in  a generally  applicable  collective  agreement  

An employer required to adhere to a generally applicable  collective agreement referred to in 
Chapter 2, section 7 of the Employment Contracts Act may also observe the provisions of a 
collective agreement referred to in section 30 of this Act within  its own scope of application, 
provided that application  of the provisions does not require agreement at local  level.  In these 
cases the provisions of the last sentence of section 30(2) will  also apply. 

Section 32 
Annual  holiday  longer  than that provided  for by law 

Unless  otherwise laid  down in an agreement, the provisions of this Act on holiday pay and 
holiday compensation shall  apply to any annual holiday  which is  longer than that provided for 
by law  and based on a collective agreement. Unless  otherwise agreed, the portion of the 
holiday exceeding the holiday provided for by law shall  be granted as laid  down in section 20(2) 
on the granting of winter holiday. 

Section 33 
Longer annual  holiday  for public  officials  in  central  government 

(1)  In addition to what is  laid  down on annual holiday in this Act, public -service relationships 

referred to in the State Public Officials’  Act (750/1994) and the Act on Parliamentary Public 
Officials  are also subject to the following  provisions: 

a public official  is granted three weekdays of normal annual holiday for each full 

1) 
holiday credit month if, before the start of the holiday season, he or she has a total of at 
least  fifteen  years’ service entitling  him or her to annual holiday; 
2) 
when a portion of a public official’s  normal annual holiday other than that 
belonging to carried-over holiday is  taken outside the holiday season, this portion of the 
holiday is  granted with a 50 % extension, though the extension may not be more than 

 
15 

half  of the duration of the entire holiday of the person in question and may not be more 
than six weekdays; when a maximum of 34 weekdays of the annual holiday determined in 
accordance with paragraph 1 is taken during the holiday season, the holiday shall  be 
granted with an extension of nine weekdays in the case of a public official  entitled  to 
holiday on the basis of 12 holiday credit months; when a public official  saves some of his 
or her normal days of annual holiday to be taken as carried-over holiday, corresponding 
reductions are made to the 34-day maximum referred to above; if the public official  is  not 
entitled  to a holiday based on 12 holiday credit months but is nevertheless entitled to a 
holiday for at least seven holiday credit months, the holiday shall  be granted with an 
extension of five weekdays, provided that no more than three quarters of the normal 
annual holiday, from which is  deducted the carried-over holiday, is taken during the 
holiday season. 

(2)  Agreements deviating from what is provided in subsection 1 may be made as laid  down in 

section 30. 

Section 34 
Claim  period 

(1)  The right to obtain the entitlement referred  to in this Act shall  expire if  a claim  during the 
employment relationship is not made within two years of the end of the calendar year during 
which the annual holiday should have been granted or the holiday compensation paid. 

(2)  After the end of the employment relationship, any claim concerning an entitlement referred 
to in subsection 1 must be commenced within two years of the end of the relationship. 

Section 35 
Availability 

The employer must keep this Act and the agreements concluded under it freely  available  to the 
employees at the workplace. 

Section 36 
Statement  of the Labour  Council 

The Labour Council shall  issue statements on the application and interpretation of this Act, as 
laid  down in the Act on the Labour Council and Derogation Permits Concerning Labour 
Protection (400/2004). 

Section 37 
Supervision 

The occupational safety and health authorities shall  supervise compliance with this Act. 

Section 38 
Penal  provisions 

 
(1)  An employer or an employer’s representative who deliberately  or through carelessness: 

16 

neglects to give, without delay, the holiday pay statement laid  down in section 28, 

neglects to grant an employee annual holiday as laid  down in this Act or keeps an 

1) 
employee at work during the period it has determined as annual holiday, 
2) 
after being requested by the employee, or 
3) 
and agreements, 

neglects its obligation  laid  down in  section 35 concerning the availability  of the Act 

shall  be fined for an annual holiday offence.  The allocation  of liability  between the 
employer and its representatives shall  be determined in accordance with the grounds laid 
down in Chapter 47, section 7 of the Criminal  Code (39/1889). 

(2)  Provisions on punishment for neglect or abuse concerning annual holiday records referred 

to in section 29 of this Act and for an annual holiday offence that has been committed in 
spite of a request, order or prohibition by occupational safety and health authorities are 
contained in Chapter 47, section 2 of the Criminal  Code. 

Chapter 7 
Transitional  provisions and entry into force 

Section 39 
Entry into force 

(1)  This Act enters into force on 1 April  2005. 

(2)  This Act repeals  the following,  as amended: 

1) the Annual Holidays Act of 30 March 1973 (272/1973); 
2) the Act on the annual holidays of officeholders and employees in municipalities  and 
other public sector corporations in certain cases (111/1939) of 21 April  1939;  
3) the Decree on the annual holidays of Government civil servants (692/1973) of 31 

August 1973; 

4) the Decree on annual holidays and holiday compensation of certain part -time civil 
servants and part-time teachers in the Government sector (1200/1987) of 23 
December 1987; 

5) the Decree on the annual holidays of civil  servants in the foreign service (208/1992) 

of6 March 1992; and 

6) the Government decision on annual holidays of Government employees (284/1978) 

of20 April  1978. 

(3) 

If  an act or decree contains references to a provision repealed by this Act, this Act will 
apply instead. 

Section 40 
Transitional  provisions 

17 

(1)  In employment relationships  in which the employer must or may adhere to a collective 

agreement made before the entry into force of this Act under the Collective Agreements 
Act or Chapter 2, section 7 of the Employment Contracts Act, the employer may apply 
those provisions of the collective agreement that differ  from this Act until the expiry of the 
collective agreement, unless the collective agreement is  amended before that date. 
Correspondingly, those provisions on annual holidays issued under the Act on Collective 
Agreements for State Public Officials  (664/1970), the Act on Collective Agreements for 
Local Government Officials  (669/1970) and the Act on Collective Agreements for Officials 
of the Evangelical  Lutheran Church (968/1974) which differ from this Act may be applied 
until  the expiry of the collective agreement, unless the collective agreement is  amended 
before that date. 

(2)  Holiday pay and holiday compensation payable for the period of annual holiday earned 
before the entry into force of this Act shall  be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Annual Holidays Act in force at the time the entitlement was earned. 

* Act 346/2019 Provision on entry into force: The provisions in force at the time this Act 
entered into force shall  be applied  to holidays granted for a leave-earning year that 
commenced before the entry into force of this Act. 

