Translation from Finnish 

Legally binding only in Finnish and Swedish 

Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment, Finland 

Employment Contracts Act 

(55/2001; amendments up to 329/2023 included) 

By decision of Parliament, the following is enacted: 

Chapter 1 

General provisions 

Section 1 

Scope of application 

This Act applies to contracts (employment contracts) entered into by an employee, or jointly by 

several employees as a team, agreeing personally to perform work for an employer under the 

employer's direction and supervision in return for pay or some other remuneration. In situations 

open to interpretation, the existence of an employment relationship is assessed based on an 

overall consideration, taking into account the terms of employment, the circumstances in which 

the work is performed, the intention of the parties concerning the nature of the legal relationship, 

and other factors affecting the actual status of the parties in the legal relationship. (329/2023) 

This Act applies regardless of the absence of any agreement on remuneration, if the facts indicate 

that the work was not intended to be performed without remuneration. 

Application of the Act is not prevented merely by the fact that the work is performed at the 

employee's home or in a place chosen by the employee, or by the fact that the work is performed 

using the employee's implements or machinery. 

Section 2 

Derogations from the scope of application 

This Act does not apply to: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 

1) employment relations or service obligations subject to public law; 

2) ordinary hobby activities; 

3) such contracts on work to be performed which are governed by separate provisions by law. 

Section 3 (1224/2010) 

Form and duration of the employment contract 

An employment contract may be oral, written or electronic. 

An employment contract is valid indefinitely unless it has, for a justified reason, been made for a 

specific fixed term. Contracts made for a fixed term on the employer's initiative without a justified 

reason shall be considered valid indefinitely. 

It is prohibited to use consecutive fixed-term contracts when the amount or total duration of fixed-

term contracts or the totality of such contracts indicates a permanent need of labour. 

Section 3a (1448/2016) 

Concluding a fixed-term employment contract with a long-term unemployed person 

Concluding a fixed-term employment contract does not require the justified reason referred to in 

section 3, subsection 2 if, on the basis of notification from an Employment and Economic 

Development Office, the person to be employed has been an unemployed job seeker during the 

preceding 12 months without interruption. An employment relationship of two weeks or less does 

not interrupt the continuity of unemployment. Even if the employer’s need for labour is permanent 

in the way referred to in section 3, subsection 3, this will not prevent the employment contract 

being concluded as a fixed-term contact. 

The consideration of whether a person is an unemployed job seeker is governed by the provisions 

of chapter 1, section 3 of the Act on Public Business and Employment Service (916/2012). 

The maximum duration of the fixed-term employment contract is one year. The contract may be 

renewed during the one-year period that follows the commencement of the first fixed-term 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 

employment contract, and this may be done no more than twice. The combined total duration of 

the contracts may not, however, exceed one year. 

Section 4 (1448/2016) 

Trial period 

The employer and the employee may agree on a trial period of a maximum of six months starting 

from the beginning of the work. If, during the trial period, the employee has been absent due to 

incapacity for work or family leave, the employer is entitled to extend the trial period by one 

month for every 30 calendar days included in the periods of incapacity for work or family leave. 

The employer shall notify the employee of the trial period extension before the end of the trial 

period. 

In a fixed-term employment relationship, the trial period together with any extensions to it may 

comprise no more than half of the duration of the employment contract, and in any event may not 

exceed six months. If a person is hired by the user enterprise referred to in section 7, subsection 3 

after the temporary agency work ends to perform the same or similar duties, the time, which the 

employee was assigned for use by the user enterprise, will be deducted from the maximum trial 

period, in accordance with subsection 1 of this section. 

If a collective agreement applicable to the employer contains a provision on a trial period, the 

employer must inform the employee of the application of this provision at the time the contract is 

concluded. 

During the trial period, the employment contract may be cancelled by either party. The 

employment contract may not, however, be cancelled on discriminatory or otherwise inappropriate 

grounds with regard to the purpose of the trial period. The employer may not cancel an 

employment contract when it has neglected the obligation to inform laid down in subsection 3 of 

this section. 

Section 5 

Benefits related to the duration of the employment relationship 

If the employer and the employee have concluded a number of consecutive fixed-term 

employment contracts under which the employment relationship has continued without 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 

interruption or with only short interruptions, the employment relationship shall be regarded as 

having been valid continuously when benefits based on the employment relationship are specified. 

Section 6 

Contracts of employment with legally incompetent persons 

Provisions concerning the right of a person under 18 years of age to conclude a contract of 

employment and the right of the person having the care and custody of a young employee to 

cancel a contract of employment concluded by a minor are laid down in the Young Workers’ Act 

(998/1993). 

A person who has been declared legally incompetent or whose competence has been limited under 

the Guardianship Services Act (442/1999) may conclude and terminate a contract of employment 

on own behalf. 

Section 7 

Transfer of rights and obligations 

The parties to the contract of employment shall not assign any of their rights or obligations under 

a contract of employment to a third party without the other party's consent, unless otherwise 

provided below. 

A claim that has fallen due may, however, be so assigned without the consent of the other party. 

If, with the employee's consent, the employer assigns an employee for use by another employer 

(user enterprise), the right to direct and supervise the work is transferred to the user enterprise 

together with the obligations stipulated for the employer directly related to the performance of the 

work and its arrangement. The user enterprise must provide the employee’s employer with any 

and all information necessary for the fulfilment of the employer’s responsibilities. (707/2008) 

Section 8 

Employee's assistant 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 

If, with the employer's consent, the employee has hired an assistant to help the employee to fulfil 

the obligations under the contract of employment, the person hired as assistant also has an 

employment relationship with the employer that gave consent. 

Section 9 

Employer’s substitute 

The employer may assign another person to direct and supervise the work as the employer's 

substitute. If, in the exercise of these functions, such substitute causes a loss to the employee 

through fault or negligence, the employer shall be liable for the loss. 

Section 10 

Assignment of business 

Assignment of the employer’s business refers to assignment of an enterprise, business, corporate 

body, foundation or an operative part thereof to another employer, if the business or part thereof 

to be assigned, disregarding whether it is a central or ancillary activity, remains the same or 

similar after the assignment. 

When a business is assigned as referred to in subsection 1 above, rights and obligations and 

employment benefits related to them under employment relationships valid at the time of the 

assignment devolve to the new owner or proprietor. The assignor and the assignee are jointly and 

severally liable for the employee's pay or other claims deriving from the employment relationship 

that have fallen due before the assignment. Unless otherwise agreed, however, the assignor is 

liable to pay the assignee employee claims that have fallen due before the assignment. (943/2002) 

Where a business is assigned by a bankrupt's estate, the assignee is not liable for the employee's 

pay or other claims deriving from the employment relationship that have fallen due before the 

assignment, except if controlling power in the bankrupt enterprise and in the assignee enterprise is 

or has been exercised by the same persons on the basis of ownership, agreement or other 

arrangement. 

Section 11 (744/2022) 

Variable working hours clause 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 

Variable working hours clause means a working hours arrangement in which the employee’s 

working hours, as a specified period, vary between a minimum and maximum amount under the 

employment contract, or a working hours arrangement in which the employee undertakes to 

perform work for the employer when separately asked to do so. 

Agreement on variable working hours may not be made at the employer’s initiative if the 

employer’s labour need to which the agreement relates is fixed. 

Any agreement that the minimum working hours included in a variable working hours clause will 

be fewer than required by the employer’s labour need may not be made at the employer’s 

initiative. 

The minimum working time specified in a variable working hours clause may not be agreed on the 

employer’s initiative as less than the employer’s need for labour requires. The employer shall 

review realisation of the working hours clause agreed in an employment contract at intervals not 

exceeding 12 months. If the number of hours worked during the tracking period and the 

employer’s need for labour indicate that a larger minimum working time could be specified in an 

employment contract, then within one month of completing the review the employer shall offer the 

employee an agreement to amend the working hours clause so that it corresponds to the outcome 

of the review. The employer shall inform the employee of the time of the review and shall furnish 

the employee or the representative thereof on request with a written account of the outcome of 

the review and of the facts on which the outcome is based. 

An employer who entirely ceases to offer work shall provide a written explanation of the grounds  

for the reduction in available work at the employee’s request. 

Chapter 2 

Employer’s obligations 

Section 1 

General obligation 

The employer shall in all respects work to improve employer/employee relations and relations 

among the employees. The employer shall ensure that employees are able to carry out their work 

even when the enterprise's operations, the work to be carried out or the work methods are 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 

changed or developed. The employer shall strive to further the employees’ opportunities to 

develop themselves according to their abilities so that they can advance in their careers. 

Section 2 (1331/2014) 

Equal treatment and prohibition of discrimination 

An employer must treat all employees equally, unless deviating from this is justified in view of the 

duties and position of the employees. 

Without proper and justified reason less favourable employment terms than those applicable to 

other employment relationships must not be applied to fixed-term and part-time employment 

relationships merely because of the duration of the employment contract or working hours. 

Provisions on equality and on the prohibition of discrimination are laid down in the Non-

Discrimination Act (1325/2014). Provisions on equality and on the prohibition of discrimination 

based on gender are laid down in the Act on Equality between Women and Men (609/1986). 

Section 3 

Occupational safety and health 

The employer must ensure occupational safety and health in order to protect employees from 

accidents and health hazards, as provided in the Occupational Safety and Health Act (738/2002). 

(750/2002) 

If the working duties or conditions of a pregnant employee endanger the health of the employee 

or the foetus and if the hazard cannot be eliminated from the work or working conditions, the 

employee shall, if possible, be transferred to other duties suitable in terms of her working capacity 

and skills for the period of pregnancy. Provisions on an employee’s right to special pregnancy 

leave are laid down in chapter 4, section 1. (32/2022)  

Section 4 (744/2022) 

Information on principal terms of work 

An employer shall furnish an employee with a written account of the principal terms and conditions 

of the work, unless the terms and conditions are specified in a written employment contract. There 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 

is no need to provide the account again on resuming prior contractual relations unless otherwise 

required under subsection 5. 

There is no need to provide the account if the employee’s average weekly working time does not 

exceed three hours over a period of four consecutive weeks. An employee’s work for another 

employer belonging to the same corporate group as the employer is taken into account when 

calculating working hours.  

The account shall specify at least the following details: 

1) the employer, the employee and their domiciles or business locations; 

2) the date of commencement of the work; 

3) the expiry date or estimated ending time of a fixed-term employment contract, together with 

the grounds for specifying a fixed term or a notification that the contract is a fixed-term 

employment contract with a long-term unemployed person, as referred to in chapter 1, section 3a; 

4) any trial period; 

5) the place where the work is to be performed or, if the employee has no primary fixed 

workplace, an account of the principles on which the employee will work at various locations or is 

free to determine the place of work; 

6) the employee’s principal duties; 

7) the grounds for determining the pay and other remuneration, and the pay period; 

8) the working hours to be observed; 

9) for an employee with variable working hours: 

(a) under what circumstances and to what extent the employer’s need for labour arises; 

(b) the days of the week and the times when the employer may commission work in accordance 

with section 30a of the Working Time Act (872/2019) without the employee’s consent granted for 

each occasion; 

10) in agency work: 

(a) the name and place of business of the user undertaking, where known; 

(b) details of the reason for and the duration or estimated duration of the user undertaking’s order 

under the client agreement that underlies any fixed-term employment contract; 

(c) an assessment of other duties available in the undertaking of the temporary agency worker’s 

employer that correspond to the duties agreed in the employment contract of the said worker; 

11) any right to training provided by the employer based on statute, contract or practice; 

12) the manner of determining annual holiday; 

13) the period of notice or the grounds for determining this period; 

14) the collective agreement applicable to the work; 

 
 
 
 
9 

15) the insurance institution in which the employer has arranged the employee’s pension coverage 

or insured the employee against work-related accidents and occupational diseases; 

16) in the case of work abroad that lasts for no less than one month: 

(a) the country or countries where the work will be done, the duration of the work, the currency in 

which monetary wages will be paid, the monetary allowances and benefits in kind to be paid 

abroad, and the terms and conditions of the employee’s repatriation; 

(b) the remuneration to which a posted worker within the meaning of Directive 96/71/EC of the 

European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers 

in the framework of the provision of services is entitled under applicable legislation or generally 

applicable collective agreements in the host Member State, all bonuses payable for being posted 

and arrangements for reimbursing travel, accommodation and meal costs as necessary; and a link 

to the official national website referred to in Article 5(2) of Directive 2014/67/EU of the European 

Parliament and of the Council on the enforcement of Directive 96/71/EC concerning the posting of 

workers in the framework of the provision of services and amending Regulation (EU) No 

1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System (the IMI 

Regulation). 

The information referred to in paragraphs 1 to 8 of subsection 3 shall be provided within seven 

days and the information referred to in paragraphs 9 to 15 within one month of the date of 

commencement of the work. The information referred to in paragraph 16 of the said subsection 

shall be provided before the employee’s international departure. The information referred to in 

paragraphs 4, 7 and 8, and in paragraphs 11 to 15 of the said subsection may be provided by 

referring to the statute or collective agreement that governs the employment. 

The employer shall also present the employee as soon as possible with written information on any 

changes in the terms of work, though not later than when the change takes effect, unless the said 

change derives from an amendment of legislation or collective agreement. 

Section 5 

Employer's obligation to offer work to a part-time employee 

If the employer requires more employees for duties suitable for employees who are already doing 

part-time work for the employer, the employer shall offer such employment to these part-time 

employees, regardless of chapter 6, section 6. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 

If accepting the work referred to in subsection 1 calls for training that the employer can 

reasonably provide in view of the aptitude of the employee, the employer shall provide the 

employee with such training. 

Section 6 (744/2022) 

Notification of vacancies and justified response concerning the possibility of 

prolonging regular working time or the duration of an employment contract 

The employer shall provide information on vacancies in accordance with practice generally adopted 

in the enterprise or at the workplace in order to ensure that part-time and fixed-term employees 

have the same opportunity of applying for these jobs as permanent or full-time employees. 

Observing similar practice, the user enterprise shall also inform its hired workers (temporary 

agency workers) of vacancies that arise. 

At the request of a part-time or temporary employee, an employer must provide a justified 

response concerning the possibility of prolonging the regular working time agreed in an 

employment contract or the duration of an employment contract. The response must be provided 

in writing within one month of the request. A response may nevertheless be provided within three 

months of the request if the number of employees regularly employed by the employer does not 

exceed 250, and the response to a repeated request may be given orally if the grounds for the 

response have not changed since the previous response. No obligation to provide a written 

response shall arise if the employee has worked for the employer for less than six months, or if 

less than 12 months have elapsed since the employee’s previous request. 

Section 7 

General applicability of collective agreements 

The employer shall observe at least the provisions of a national collective agreement considered 

representative in the sector in question (generally applicable collective agreement) on the terms 

and working conditions of the employment relationship that concern the work the employee 

performs or nearest comparable work. 

Any term of an employment contract that is in conflict with an equivalent term in the generally 

applicable collective agreement is null and void, and the equivalent provision in the generally 

applicable collective agreement shall be observed instead. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 

In derogation from what is laid down in subsection 1, an employer which is required under the 

Collective Agreements Act (436/1946) to observe a collective agreement in which the other 

contracting party is a national employee organisation is allowed to apply the provisions of this 

collective agreement. 

Section 8 

Confirmation and validity of general applicability 

Provisions on confirmation of the general applicability of a collective agreement, on the validity of 

the general applicability and the availability of agreements are laid down in the Act on 

Confirmation of the General Applicability of Collective Agreements (56/2001). 

Section 9 (10/2012) 

Collective agreement applicable to the employment relationships of hired workers 

(temporary agency workers) 

If the employer has hired out an employee to work for another employer, and the employer that 

hired out its employee is neither bound by a collective agreement as referred to in section 7, 

subsection 3, nor required to observe a generally applicable collective agreement in its 

employment relationships, at least the provisions of the collective agreement referred to in section 

7, subsection 3 to which the user enterprise is bound or a generally applicable collective 

agreement shall be applied to the employment relationship of the hired worker (temporary agency 

worker). 

If no collective agreement referred to in subsection 1 is applied to the hired worker’s (temporary 

agency worker’s) employment relationship, the terms and conditions pertaining to the worker's 

pay, working hours, and annual leave must, at a minimum, comply with the agreements or 

practices binding on, and generally applied by, the user enterprise. 

Section 9a (10/2012) 

Right of hired workers (temporary agency workers) to access the services and 

facilities of the user enterprise 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 

Hired employees have the right to access the services and common facilities provided by the user 

enterprise for its employees on the same terms and conditions as the employees of the user 

enterprise, unless different treatment is justified for objective reasons. However, the user 

enterprise is not obliged to provide financial support for the hired workers’ (temporary agency 

workers’) use of such services and facilities. 

Section 10 

Minimum pay in the absence of a collective agreement 

If neither a collective agreement binding under the Collective Agreements Act nor a generally 

applicable collective agreement is applicable to an employment relationship, and the employer and 

the employee have not agreed on the remuneration to be paid for the work, the employee shall be 

paid a reasonable normal remuneration for the work performed. 

Section 11 (377/2018) 

Pay during illness 

Employees who are prevented from performing their work by an illness or accident are entitled to 

full pay during illness. If the employment relationship has lasted for a minimum of one month, the 

employee is entitled to full pay for the period of disability up to the end of the ninth day following 

the date of falling ill, but only up to the point at which the employee's right to national sickness 

allowance under the Health Insurance Act (1224/2004) comes into effect. In employment 

relationships that have continued for less than one month employees are correspondingly entitled 

to 50 per cent of their pay. 

In observing variable working hours, the entitlement to pay during illness under subsection 1 

arises if the period of incapacity for work includes a work shift that has been entered in the shift 

schedule, if such has been otherwise agreed or if, in view of the circumstances, it can otherwise 

be considered clear that the employee would have been at work if he or she had been fit for work. 

Pay during illness is determined in a corresponding manner also when fixed working hours have 

been agreed and the amount of extra work during the six months immediately prior to the start of 

the illness has, on average, exceeded the agreed amount by at least a factor of four. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 

Employees are not entitled to pay during illness if they have caused the incapacity for work wilfully 

or by gross negligence. On request, employees shall present the employer with a reliable account 

of their incapacity for work. 

When the employer has paid an employee pay for the period of illness, it is entitled to receive, for 

a corresponding period, the daily sickness allowance due to the employee under the Health 

Insurance Act or the Occupational Accidents, Injuries and Diseases Act (459/2015), though not 

more than an amount equivalent to the pay extended. 

Section 11a (460/2006) 

Part-time absence due to illness 

Provisions on an employee's entitlement to a part-time sickness allowance and the fixed-term 

contract on part-time work on which it is based are contained in chapter 8, section 11 of the 

Health Insurance Act. The purpose of a part-time absence due to illness is to support the 

employees in extending their working careers and their return to work on their own initiative. A 

part-time employment contract will be concluded based on a report on the employee's state of 

health. (534/2009) 

Changing a part-time employment contract during the term of the contract shall be subject to 

agreement. A contract for a fixed term will, however, be terminated during the term of the 

contract, in case the employee because of an illness no longer is able to cope with the part-time 

work. 

Once a part-time employment contract comes to an end, the employee shall be entitled to revert 

to the terms and conditions of the full-time employment contract preceding the part-time contract. 

Section 12 

The employee's right to pay in the case of impediment to work 

Unless otherwise agreed, the employer is required to pay the employee full pay if the employee 

has been available to the employer in accordance with the contract, but has been prevented from 

working by circumstances for which the employer is responsible. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 

If the employee is prevented from working due to a fire, an exceptional natural event or another 

similar event affecting the workplace beyond the control of the employee or employer, the 

employee is entitled to pay for the period of the impediment, though not for more than a 

maximum of 14 days. If the impediment beyond the control of the parties to the employment 

contract is caused by industrial action by other employees that is independent of the employee's 

employment terms or working conditions, the employee is, however, entitled to pay for a 

maximum of seven days. 

The employer may deduct from the pay due to employees under subsections 1 and 2 amounts that 

the latter have saved because their work performance has been impeded and amounts the 

employees have earned doing other work or chosen intentionally not to earn. In making the 

deduction, the employer shall observe the provisions of section 17 of this chapter on limitation of 

the set-off right. 

Section 13 

Payday and pay period 

Pay shall be paid on the last day of the pay period, unless otherwise agreed. If the basis for a time 

rate is a period shorter than one week, payment must be made at least twice a month, otherwise 

once a month. If the pay rate is performance-based, the pay period must not exceed two weeks 

unless the performance-based pay is paid together with a monthly salary. If performance-based 

work lasts longer than one pay period, part of the pay determined on the basis of the time spent 

on the work must be paid for each pay period. 

If part of the pay is determined as profit shares, commissions or on other similar grounds, the pay 

period for this part may be longer than stipulated above, though not more than 12 months. 

Section 14 

Pay period on termination of employment relationship 

When an employment relationship ends, the pay period also ends. If payment of a debt arising 

from the employment relationship is delayed, the employee is entitled to full pay for the waiting 

days, though not for more than a maximum of six calendar days, in addition to the penalty interest 

referred to in section 4 of the Interest Act (633/1982). 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 

If a debt arising from the employment relationship is not clear or uncontested or if the delay in 

payment is due to the employer's calculation error or other similar error, the employee is entitled 

to receive pay for the waiting days only if the employee has notified the employer of the delay in 

payment within one month of termination of the employment relationship and the employer has 

not made the payment within three working days of the notification. In such a case, entitlement to 

pay for the waiting days begins on the expiry of payment period granted to the employer. 

Section 15 

Exceptional paydays 

If an employee's pay falls due on a Sunday, a religious holiday, Independence Day, May 1, 

Christmas or Midsummer Eve, or a Saturday that is not a holiday, it shall be deemed to fall due on 

the preceding working day. 

If an employee's pay falls due on a working day on which the payment systems generally used by 

banks for interbank payments are not available under a decision made by the European Central 

Bank or the Bank of Finland, as announced by a notice made by the Bank of Finland and published 

in the Statute Book, the nearest working day preceding this shall, similarly, be deemed the due 

day. 

Section 16 (398/2013) 

Payment of pay 

Pay shall be paid into the bank account designated by the employee. The pay shall be 

withdrawable by the employee on the due date. Pay shall be paid in cash only if it is necessary 

because of compelling reasons. The employer shall bear the costs of the payment method. 

On payment, the employer shall give the employee a calculation showing the amount of the pay 

and the grounds for its determination. When the payment is made in cash the employer shall have 

a receipt signed by the employee or another substantiation verifying the payment. 

An employer´s obligation to attach to the bookkeeping the receipt signed by the employee or 

another substantiation verifying the payment is prescribed in the Accounting Act (1336/1997). 

Section 17 (1448/2016) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employer's right of set-off and advance 

16 

The employer shall not set off pay payable to an employee against counterclaims in so far as this 

is exempt from distraint under the Enforcement Code (705/2007) or a decree issued by virtue of it. 

(377/2018) 

Advance pay extended as security on the contract or otherwise may be deducted from pay. 

Advance pay shall in the first place be deemed part of the protected amount referred to in 

subsection 1. 

Section 18 (418/2015) 

Employee's entitlement to time off work in order to attend to a position of trust in the 

municipal government 

The employees are entitled to receive time off their work in order to attend to a position of trust in 

the municipal government as prescribed in sections 80 and 81 of the Local Government Act 

(410/2015). 

Section 19 (744/2022)  

Gratuitousness and counting as working time of compulsory training 

Any training that an employer is obliged by law or collective agreement to provide to employees in 

order to enable them to perform work for which they were hired must be provided to the 

employees without charge. The training must also be counted as working time and must take 

place during regular work shifts where possible. 

Chapter 3 

Employees’ obligations 

Section 1 

General obligations 

Employees shall perform their work carefully, observing the instructions concerning performance 

issued by the employer within its competence. In their activities, employees shall avoid everything 

that conflicts with the actions reasonably required of employees in their position. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 

Section 2 

Occupational safety and health 

Employees shall observe the care and caution required by their work duties and working conditions 

and apply all available means to ensure their own safety and the safety of other employees at the 

workplace. 

Employees shall notify the employer of any faults or deficiencies they may detect in the structures, 

machinery, equipment and work and protection implements of the workplace which may cause risk 

of accident or illness. 

Section 3 

Competing activity 

Employees shall not do work for another party or engage in such activity that would, taking the 

nature of the work and the individual employee's position into account, cause manifest harm to 

their employer as a competing activity contrary to fair employment practices. 

During the term of employment, employees shall not embark on any action to prepare for 

competing activities as cannot be deemed acceptable, taking into account what is stipulated in 

subsection 1. 

An employer which recruits a person whom it knows to be impeded from work on the basis of 

subsection 1 is liable for any loss caused to the previous employer jointly with the employee. 

Section 4 (597/2018) 

Trade secrets 

During the term of employment, the employee may neither utilise unlawfully nor divulge to third 

parties the employer's trade secrets. If the employee has obtained such information unlawfully, 

the prohibition will also continue after termination of the employment relationship. 

Provisions on the protection of trade secrets are laid down in the Trade Secrets Act (595/2018). 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 

Liability for any loss incurred by the employer applies not only to the employee who divulged the 

trade secret but also to the recipient of this information, if the latter knew or should have known 

that the employee had acted unlawfully. 

Section 5 (1018/2021) 

Agreement of non-competition 

For a particularly weighty reason related to the operations of the employer in the employment 

relationship, an agreement made at the beginning of or during the employment relationship 

(agreement of non-competition) may limit the employee's right to conclude an employment 

contract on work to begin after the employment relationship has ceased with an employer which 

engages in operations competing with the first-mentioned employer, and also the employee's right 

to engage in such operations on own account. 

In assessing the particular weight of the reason for instituting an agreement of non-competition, 

consideration shall be given to the nature of the employer’s operations and any need for 

protection related to keeping a trade secret or to special training given to the employee by the 

employer, to the employee’s status and duties, and to other similar factors. 

The employer shall pay compensation to the employee corresponding to 40 per cent of the 

employee’s pay for an agreed restriction period that does not exceed six months. Compensation 

corresponding to 60 per cent of the employee’s pay shall be paid to the employee for an agreed 

restriction period exceeding six months. The restriction period may not exceed one year, counted 

from the end of the employment relationship. The compensation shall be paid during the 

restriction period according to the pay periods observed during the employment relationship, 

unless otherwise agreed after the termination of the employment contract. Instead of 

compensation for loss, the agreement may include a provision on contractual penalty, which shall 

not exceed the amount of pay received by the employee for the six months preceding the end of 

the employee's employment relationship. 

The employer shall be entitled to terminate an agreement of non-competition by observing a 

notice period of not less than one third of the duration of the restriction period, but at least two 

months. The right of termination shall nevertheless no longer apply after the employee has 

terminated the employment contract. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 

An agreement of non-competition does not bind the employee if the employment relationship has 

been terminated for a reason deriving from the employer. The provisions of subsection 3 on 

restricting the duration of an agreement of non-competition and the maximum contractual penalty 

shall not apply to employees who, in view of their duties and status, are deemed to be engaged in 

the direction of the enterprise, corporate body or foundation or an independent part thereof, or to 

have an independent status directly comparable to such managerial duties. 

An agreement of non-competition shall be null and void insofar as it is contrary to the provisions of 

this section. In other respects, the provisions in the Contracts Act (228/1929) shall apply to the 

validity and mediation of such agreements. 

Chapter 4 

Family leave 

Section 1 (32/2022) 

Pregnancy, special pregnancy and parental leave 

Employees shall be entitled to take leave from work due to pregnancy or confinement, or for the 

purpose of caring for a child, for the following periods referred to in the Health Insurance Act: 

1) pregnancy allowance days (pregnancy leave); 

2) special pregnancy allowance days (special pregnancy leave); 

3) parental allowance days (parental leave). 

Pregnancy leave shall commence 30 working days before the expected date of confinement. The 

employer and the employee may agree to delay pregnancy leave so that it begins no later than 14 

working days before the expected date of confinement. 

Employees shall be entitled to take parental leave in no more than four periods, the minimum 

duration of which shall be 12 working days. Even when also entitled to parental allowance on the 

basis of another or several children, an employee may take no more than four periods of parental 

leave in the same calendar year. A period that continues beyond the end of a calendar year shall 

be deemed part of the quota for the calendar year in which it began. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 

Section 2 (32/2022) 

Protection of pregnant and recently confined employees 

An employee may only perform work with the employer’s consent that does not endanger the 

personal safety of the employee, nor that of a foetus or newborn over a period of 14 weeks from 

the beginning of pregnancy leave. Both the employer and the employee shall be entitled at any 

time to discontinue any work to be done during this period. However, work is not permitted during 

a period of two weeks before the expected time of childbirth and two weeks after giving birth. 

Section 2a (32/2022) 

Partial parental leave 

An employer and employee may agree that the employee will take parental leave on a part-time 

basis and on the terms and conditions of part-time work. 

Any discontinuation of the part-time work referred to in subsection 1 and amendment of terms and 

conditions shall be agreed. If no agreement is reached, then the employee shall be entitled to 

discontinue part-time work for a legitimate reason, and to return either to the full-time parental 

leave referred to in section 1 of this chapter, or to comply with their previous working time. 

A written justification shall be provided if an employer refuses to conclude the agreement referred 

to in subsection 1. 

Section 3 (32/2022) 

Child-care leave 

Employees are entitled to take child-care leave in order to care for their child or some other child 

living permanently in their household until the child reaches the age of three. The entitlement to 

child-care leave of a parent of an adopted child shall nevertheless continue until a period two 

years has elapsed from the adoption, but for no longer than the time when the child begins to 

attend school. 

Child-care leave can be taken in one or two periods of at least one month, unless the employee 

and the employer agree on more than two periods or a period shorter than one month. Only one 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 

parent or person having the care and custody of the child is entitled to child-care leave at one 

time. Another parent or person with care and custody shall nevertheless be entitled to take one 

period of child-care leave during pregnancy or parental leave. 

Section 3a (32/2022) 

Notification of pregnancy and parental leave and child-care leave 

The employee shall notify the employer of pregnancy and parental leave or child-care leave at 

least two months before the intended start of the leave. However, if the duration of this leave is 

no more than 12 working days, the period of notification is one month. When giving notification of 

leave to care for an adopted child, the notification period prescribed above should be observed 

whenever possible. 

In the event that observing the notification period of two months is not possible because of the 

spouse starting employment and the consequent need for child-care arrangements, the employee 

shall be entitled to take parental leave one month from the date of the notification, unless this 

results in a serious inconvenience to production or service operations of the workplace. If the 

employer feels unable to consent to the notification period of one month, the employer shall 

inform the employee of the grounds for this refusal. 

For a justified reason, the employee shall have the right to change the time and duration of the 

leave by notifying the employer thereof no later than one month before the change takes effect. 

An employee may nevertheless bring forward pregnancy leave and change the date of intended 

leave to be taken at the time of confinement where there is an entitlement to take this leave at 

the same time as the other parent or a spouse if this is necessary for the birth of the child or due 

to the state of health of a child or parent. In that case, the employer shall be notified of the 

change as soon as possible. The parent of an adopted child shall have the right to change the 

term of the leave before the leave starts for a justified reason by notifying the employer at the 

earliest possible date. 

Section 4 

Partial child-care leave 

An employee who has been employed by the same employer for a total period of at least six 

months during the previous 12 months is entitled to take partial child-care leave in order to care 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 

their child, or some other child living permanently in the employee’s household, up to the end of 

the second year during which the child attends basic education. Partial child-care leave shall 

nevertheless remain available until the end of the third school year of a child falling within the 

scope of the extended compulsory school attendance referred to in section 2, subsection 3 of the 

Compulsory Education Act (1214/2020). The parent of a disabled child or a child with a long-term 

illness in need of particular care and support may be granted partial child-care leave until the time 

the child turns 18. Both of the child’s parents, or persons having the care and custody of the child, 

are entitled to take partial child-care leave during the same calendar period, but not 

simultaneously. The employee must submit a proposal to the employer on partial child-care leave 

at the latest two months before the leave will begin. (1237/2020) 

The employer and the employee shall agree on partial child-care leave and the detailed 

arrangements concerning it as they see fit. The employer cannot refuse to agree on or grant such 

leave unless the leave causes serious inconvenience to production or service operations that 

cannot be avoided through reasonable rearrangements of work. The employer must provide the 

employee with an account of the grounds for its refusal. 

If an employee is entitled to partial child-care leave, but it is not possible to reach agreement on 

the detailed arrangements, the employee shall be granted one period of partial child-care leave in 

a calendar year. The duration and timing of the leave shall be according to the employee's 

proposal. In such cases, the partial child-care leave shall be granted by reducing the regular 

working hours to six hours per day. The reduced working hours shall cover a continuous period, 

notwithstanding rest periods. If regular working hours have been arranged on the basis of an 

average, the average shall be reduced to 30 hours per week. 

Section 5 

Interruption of partial child-care leave 

Any changes in partial child-care leave shall be agreed on. If it is not possible to reach an 

agreement, the employee has the right to interrupt partial child-care leave for a justified reason, 

observing a notice period of at least one month. 

Section 6 

Temporary child-care leave 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 

If the employee's child or some other child who is under 10 years of age and who lives 

permanently in the employee's household falls suddenly ill, the employee shall be entitled to 

temporary child-care leave for a maximum of four working days at a time in order to arrange for 

care of the child or to care for the child personally. This entitlement also applies to a parent who 

does not live in the same household with the child. Those entitled to temporary child-care leave 

shall have the right to take temporary child-care leave during the same calendar period, but not 

simultaneously. (533/2006) 

The employee shall notify the employer of temporary child-care leave and of its estimated duration 

as soon as possible. If the employer so requires, the employee shall present a reliable account of 

the grounds for temporary child-care leave. 

Section 7 

Absence for compelling family reasons 

Employees shall be entitled to temporary absence from work if their immediate presence is 

necessary because of an unforeseeable and compelling reason due to an illness or accident 

suffered by their family. 

Employees must notify the employer of their absence and its reason as soon as possible. If the 

employer so requests, employees must present a reliable account of the grounds for their absence. 

Section 7a (197/2011) 

Absence for taking care of a family member or someone close to the employee 

If it is necessary for an employee to be absent in order to provide special care for a family member 

or someone else close to the employee, the employer must try to arrange the work so that the 

employee may be absent from work for a fixed period. The employer and the employee shall agree 

on the duration of such leave and on other arrangements. 

 The employer and the employee. must agree on the discontinuation of the agreed absence. If 

agreement cannot be reached, the employee may discontinue their leave for a justifiable reason by 

informing the employer of their return no later than one month before the date of return to work. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the employer’s request, the employee must deliver a report on the grounds of the absence and 

24 

discontinuing it. 

Section 7b (32/2022) 

Carer’s leave 

An employee shall be entitled to no more than five working days of leave from work in a calendar 

year in order to provide personal assistance or support to a family member or a relative or 

someone close who lives in the same household as the employee if the said person needs 

significant assistance or support that requires the immediate attendance of the employee due to a 

serious illness or serious injury that has significantly impaired functional capacity. The employee 

shall also be entitled to similar leave due to participation in hospice care of the foregoing person. A 

family member or a relative shall denote the employee’s child, parent, married or cohabiting 

partner, and a person in a registered civil partnership with the employee. 

The employee must inform the employer of carer’s leave and of its estimated duration at the 

earliest opportunity. The employee shall also provide a reliable account of the grounds for absence 

at the employer’s request. 

Section 8 

Obligation to pay remuneration 

The employer is not required to pay the employee remuneration for the duration of a family leave 

referred to in this chapter. 

Nonetheless, the employer shall compensate a pregnant employee for loss of earnings incurred 

from medical consultations prior to the birth if it is not possible to arrange the consultations 

outside working hours. 

Section 9 

Return to work 

At the end of a leave referred to in this chapter, employees are in the first place entitled to return 

to their former duties. If this is not possible, employees shall be offered equivalent work in 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 

accordance with their employment contract, and if this is not possible either, other work in 

accordance with their employment contract. 

Chapter 5 

Lay-offs 

Section 1 

Definition of lay-off 

Laying off means temporary interruption of work and remuneration on the basis of an employer 

decision or an agreement made on the employer's initiative, while the employment relationship 

continues in other respects. If the conditions laid down in section 2 are met, the employer is 

entitled to lay off employees either for a fixed period or indefinitely by interrupting the work 

completely or by reducing an employee's regular working hours prescribed by law or contract to 

the extent necessary in view of the grounds for laying off the employee. 

Under restrictions arising from section 6, employees are entitled to take on other work during the 

lay-off. Chapter 13, section 5 contains provisions on the use of accommodation benefits during lay-

offs. 

Section 2 

Grounds for lay-offs 

The employer is entitled to lay off an employee if 

1) the employer has a financial or production-related reason for terminating the employment 

contract referred to chapter 7, section 3, or 

2) the work or the employer's potential for offering work have diminished temporarily and the 

employer cannot reasonably provide the employee with other suitable work or training 

corresponding to its needs; the work or the potential for offering work are considered to have 

diminished temporarily if they can be estimated to last a maximum of 90 days. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 

Notwithstanding what is provided in subsection 1 and in section 4 of this chapter, the employer 

and the employee may, during the employment relationship, agree on a lay-off for a fixed period if 

this is needed in view of the employer's operations or financial standing. 

The employer is entitled to lay off an employee in a fixed-term employment relationship only if the 

employee is working as a substitute for a permanent employee and if the employer would be 

entitled to lay off the permanent employee if the permanent employee were working. 

The employer is not entitled to lay off a shop steward elected on the basis of a collective 

agreement or an elected representative referred to in chapter 13, section 3, except on the grounds 

laid down in chapter 7, section 10, subsection 2. 

Section 3 

Advance explanation and hearing the employee 

The employer shall, on the basis of information available to it, present the employee with an 

advance explanation of the grounds for the lay-off, and its estimated extent, implementation, 

commencement and duration. If the lay-off concerns a number of employees, the explanation may 

be given to the employees' representative or the employees jointly. The explanation shall be 

presented without delay as soon as the employer becomes aware of the need for lay-offs. 

After presentation of the explanation but before the lay-off notice, the employer shall reserve the 

employees or their representative an opportunity to be heard concerning the explanation given. 

It is not necessary to present an advance explanation if the employer is required under another 

act, agreement or other provision binding the employer to present a corresponding explanation or 

negotiate on the lay-offs with the employees or their representative. 

Section 4 (204/2017) 

Lay-off notice 

The employer shall notify employees of a lay-off in person a minimum of 14 days before the lay-off 

begins. If the notice cannot be given in person, it can be given by letter or electronically with the 

same minimum notice period. The notice shall include the grounds for lay-off, the date of 

commencement and the duration or estimated duration of the lay-off. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 

The obligation to give such notice does not exist if, on account of some other absence from work, 

the employer is not subject to an obligation to pay the employee remuneration for the entire lay-

off period. 

The representative of employees to be laid off shall be informed of the notice. 

Section 5 

Lay-off certificate 

At the employee's request, the employer shall provide a written lay-off certificate giving at least 

the reason for the lay-off, the date of commencement, and the duration or estimated duration of 

the lay-off. 

Section 6 

Returning to work after lay-off 

If an employee has been laid off indefinitely, the employer shall notify the employee of resumption 

of work at least seven days in advance unless otherwise agreed. 

Employees are entitled to terminate an employment contract made with another employer for the 

lay-off period, regardless of its duration, at five days' notice. 

Section 7 

Termination of the employment relationship of a laid-off employee 

During a lay-off, employees are entitled to terminate their employment contract without a notice 

period regardless of its duration. If the date when the lay-off ends is known by the employee, this 

right shall not apply for seven days preceding the end of the lay-off period. 

If the employer terminates a laid-off employee's employment contract by giving notice so that the 

contract ends during the lay-off, the employee is entitled to pay for the period of notice. The 

employer may deduct a pay sum due for 14 days from the pay for the notice period if the 

employee has been laid off using a law-based or contract-based lay-off notification period of more 

than 14 days. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 

Employees who terminate their employment contract after the lay-off has lasted continuously for a 

minimum of 200 days are entitled to their pay for the notice period as compensation, as provided 

in subsection 2. 

Chapter 6 

General provisions on the termination of an employment contract 

Section 1 

Fixed-term contracts 

Fixed-term employment contracts are terminated without giving notice at the end of the fixed 

period or on completion of the agreed work. 

If the date of the termination of the employment contract is known only by the employer, the 

employer shall inform the employee of the termination of the employment contract without delay 

as soon as it learns the date concerned. 

An employment contract concluded for longer than five years may, when five years have elapsed 

from the conclusion of the contract, be terminated on the same grounds and using the same 

procedure as an employment contract concluded for an indefinite period. 

Section 1a (1030/2004) 

Retirement age 

An employee’s employment relationship is terminated without giving notice and without a notice 

period at the end of the calendar month during which the employee reaches the age of retirement, 

unless the employer and the employee agree to continue the employment relationship. The 

retirement age is 68 for those born in 1957 or earlier, 69 for those born in 1958–1961, and 70 for 

those born in or since 1962. (102/2016) 

The employer and the employee may agree on a fixed-term continuation of an employment 

relationship regardless of chapter 1, section 3, subsection 2. 

Section 2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General provisions concerning periods of notice 

29 

An employment contract which has been concluded for an indefinite period or is otherwise valid for 

an indefinite period is terminated by giving notice to the other contracting party. 

The agreed notice period may not exceed six months. If a longer period has been agreed on, a 

six-month notice period shall be observed instead. The agreed employer's notice period may be 

longer than that of the employee. If the agreed notice period to be observed by the employer is 

shorter than that of the employee, the latter is entitled to observe the notice period agreed for the 

employer. 

If an employment contract may be terminated without notice, the employment relationship shall 

end at the close of the working day or working shift during which the notice has been given to the 

other contracting party. 

Section 3 

General notice periods 

Unless otherwise agreed, the notice periods to be observed by the employer are the following if 

the employment relationship has continued uninterruptedly: 

1) 14 days, if the employment relationship has continued for up to one year; 

2) one month, if the employment relationship has continued for more than one year but no more 

than four years; 

3) two months, if the employment relationship has continued for more than four years but no 

more than eight years; 

4) four months, if the employment relationship has continued for more than eight years but no 

more than 12 years; 

5) six months, if the employment relationship has continued for more than 12 years. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 

Unless otherwise agreed, the notice periods to be observed by the employee are the following if 

the employment relationship has continued uninterruptedly: 

1) 14 days, if the employment relationship has continued for no more than five years; 

2) one month, if the employment relationship has continued for more than five years. 

Section 4 

Non-observance of the notice period 

An employer which terminates an employment contract without observing the notice period shall 

pay the employee full pay for a period equivalent to the notice period as compensation. 

Employees who have not observed the notice period are required to pay the employer an amount 

equivalent to their pay for the notice period as a lump-sum compensation. 

If the notice period has been observed in part only, the liability is limited to what is equivalent to 

the pay due for the non-observed part of the notice period. 

Section 4a (377/2018) 

Notice-period pay when observing variable working hours 

If variable working hours have been agreed in the employment contract and the amount of work 

offered by the employer during the notice period is less than the average amount of work during 

the 12 weeks immediately prior to the last work shift, the employer must compensate the 

employee for the loss of income arising from this shortfall. The liability to compensate does not 

apply if the employment relationship had lasted less than one month before notice was given. The 

notice-period pay is determined in a corresponding manner also when fixed working hours have 

been agreed and the amount of extra work during the six months immediately prior to the notice 

being given has, on average, exceeded the agreed amount by at least a factor of four. 

Section 5 

Tacit extension of the contractual relationship 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 

If the employer allows the employee to continue to work after expiry of the contract or notice 

period, the contractual relationship shall be deemed to have been extended indefinitely. 

Section 6 (1448/2016) 

Re-employment of an employee 

If an employee is given notice on the basis of chapter 7, sections 3 or 7, and the employer needs 

new employees within four months of termination of the employment relationship for the same or 

similar work that the employee given notice had been doing, the employer shall offer work to this 

former employee if the employee continues to seek work via an Employment and Economic 

Development Office. However, if the employment relationship has lasted without interruption for at 

least 12 years prior to its termination, the re-employment period shall be six months. 

In derogation from chapter 1, section 10, subsection 2 above, this obligation also applies 

correspondingly to the assignee referred to in chapter 1, section 10, where the assignor has given 

notice to terminate an employee's employment contract with the termination to occur before the 

assignment. 

Section 7 

Certificate of employment 

On termination of the employment relationship, the employee is entitled to receive, on request, a 

written certificate of the duration of the employment relationship and the nature of the work 

duties. At the specific request of the employee, the certificate shall include the reason for the 

termination of the employment relationship and an assessment of the employee's working skills 

and behaviour. The certificate shall not provide any information other than that obtainable from 

normal perusal. 

The employer is required to provide the employee with a certificate of employment on request 

within 10 years of termination of the employment relationship. A certificate on the employee's 

working skills and behaviour shall, however, be requested within five years of termination of 

employment relationship. 

If more than 10 years have elapsed from termination of the employment relationship, a certificate 

of the duration of the employment relationship and the nature of the work duties shall be given 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 

only if it does not cause the employer undue inconvenience. Subject to the same conditions, the 

employer shall issue a new certificate on request if the original has been lost or destroyed. 

Chapter 7 

Grounds for termination of the employment contract by means of notice 

Section 1 

General provision on the grounds for termination of an employment contract 

The employer shall not terminate an indefinitely valid employment contract without proper and 

weighty reason. 

Section 2 

Termination grounds related to the employee's person 

Serious breach or neglect of obligations arising from the employment contract or the law and 

having essential impact on the employment relationship as well as such essential changes in the 

conditions necessary for working related to the employee's person as render the employee no 

more able to cope with their work duties can be considered a proper and weighty reason for 

termination arising from the employee or related to the employee's person.  

At least the following cannot be regarded as proper and weighty reasons: 

1) illness, disability or accident affecting the employee, unless working capacity is substantially 

reduced thereby for such a long term as to render it unreasonable to require that the employer 

continue the contractual relationship; 

2) participation of the employee in industrial action arranged by an employee organisation or in 

accordance with the Collective Agreements Act; 

3) the employee's political, religious or other opinions or participation in social activity or 

associations; 

4) resort to means of legal protection available to employees. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33 

Employees who have neglected their duties arising from the employment relationship or 

committed a breach thereof shall not be given notice, however, before they have been warned 

and given a chance to amend their conduct. 

Having heard the employee in the manner referred to in chapter 9, section 2, the employer shall, 

before giving notice, find out whether it is possible to avoid giving notice by placing the employee 

in other work. 

What is provided in subsections 3 and 4 need not be observed if the reason for giving notice is 

such a grave breach related to the employment relationship as to render it unreasonable to require 

that the employer continue the contractual relationship. 

Section 3 

Financial and production-related grounds for termination 

The employer may terminate the employment contract if the work to be offered has diminished 

substantially and permanently for financial or production-related reasons or for reasons arising 

from reorganisation of the employer's operations. The employment contract shall not be 

terminated, however, if the employee can be placed in or trained for other duties as provided in 

section 4. 

At least the following shall not constitute grounds for termination: 

1) either before termination or thereafter the employer has employed a new employee for similar 

duties even though the employer's operating conditions have not changed during the equivalent 

period; or 

2) no actual reduction of work has taken place as a result of work reorganisation. 

Section 4 

Obligation to offer work and provide training 

Employees shall primarily be offered work that is equivalent to that defined in their employment 

contract. If no such work is available, they shall be offered other work equivalent to their training, 

professional skill or experience. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 

The employer shall provide employees with training required by new work duties that can be 

deemed feasible and reasonable from the point of view of both contracting parties. 

If an employer which in fact exercises control in personnel matters in another enterprise or 

corporate body on the basis of ownership, agreement or some other arrangement cannot offer an 

employee work as referred to in subsection 1, it must find out if it is possible to meet the 

employer's obligation to provide work and training by offering the employee work in other 

enterprises or corporate bodies under its control. 

Section 5 

Termination on assignment of business 

The assignee may not terminate an employee's employment contract merely because of 

assignment of the business as referred to in chapter 1, section 10. 

When an employer assigns its business in the manner prescribed in chapter 1, section 10, 

employees shall be entitled to give notice to terminate their employment contracts with the 

termination to occur on the date of assignment regardless of the period of notice otherwise 

applied to the employment relationship or of its duration, if they have been informed of the 

assignment by the employer or the new proprietor of the business no less than one month before 

the date of assignment. If employees have been informed of the assignment later than that, they 

are entitled to give notice to terminate their employment contract with the termination to occur on 

or after the date of assignment, though no later than within one month of having been informed of 

the assignment. 

Section 6 

Assignee's responsibility 

If an employment contract is terminated because the employee's terms of employment have been 

weakened significantly as a result of assignment of the business, the employer shall be deemed to 

be responsible for termination of the employment relationship. 

Section 7 

Termination in connection with a reorganisation procedure 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35 

If the employer is subject to a procedure referred to in the Restructuring of Enterprises Act 

(47/1993), the employer shall be entitled, unless otherwise provided in section 4, to terminate the 

employment contract regardless of its duration at a notice of two months, if 

1) the termination derives from an arrangement or measure to be carried out during the 

reorganisation procedure which is necessary to avoid bankruptcy and which causes the work to 

cease or decrease in the manner referred to in section 3 or 

2) the termination derives from a procedure in accordance with a confirmed reorganisation plan 

that causes the work to cease or decrease in the manner referred to in section 3, or if the 

termination derives from an arrangement in accordance with the plan, which is attributed to 

financial grounds established in the confirmed reorganisation plan, and calls for a reduction in 

personnel resources. 

The employee shall observe a notice period of 14 days in connection with reorganisation 

procedures, unless otherwise provided in chapter 5, section 7, subsection 1. 

Section 8 

Bankruptcy or death of the employer 

If the employer is declared bankrupt, the employment contract may be terminated by either party 

regardless of its duration. The period of notice is 14 days. The pay due for the period of 

bankruptcy shall be paid from the bankrupt's estate. 

On the death of the employer, both the parties to the death estate and the employee are entitled 

to terminate the employment contract regardless of its duration. The period of notice is 14 days. 

The termination right shall be exercised within three months of the death of the employer. 

Section 9 

Termination in the case of an employee who is pregnant or on family leave 

The employer shall not terminate an employment contract on the basis of the employee's 

pregnancy or because the employee is exercising their right to the family leave laid down in 

chapter 4. On request, the employee must present the employer with proof of pregnancy. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 

If the employer terminates the employment contract of a pregnant employee or an employee on 

family leave other than the leave provided for in chapter 4, section 7a, the termination shall be 

deemed to have taken place on the basis of the employee's pregnancy or family leave unless the 

employer can prove there was some other reason. (197/2011) 

The employer shall only be entitled to terminate the employment contract of an employee who is 

taking pregnancy, special pregnancy, parental or child-care leave on the grounds laid down in 

section 3 if the employer’s operations cease completely. (32/2022)  

Section 10 

Protection against termination in the case of a shop stewards and elected 

representatives 

The employer shall be entitled to terminate the employment contract of a shop steward elected on 

the basis of a collective agreement or of an elected representative referred to in chapter 13, 

section 3, on the basis of grounds referred to in section 2 of this chapter only if a majority of the 

employees whom the shop steward or the elected representative represents agree. 

The employer shall be entitled to terminate the employment contract of a shop steward or an 

elected representative on grounds laid down in sections 3 or 7 or section 8, subsection 1, only if 

the work of the shop steward or the elected representative ceases completely and the employer is 

unable to arrange work that corresponds to the person's professional skill or is otherwise suitable, 

or to train the person for some other work in the manner referred to in section 4. 

Section 11 

Changing the employment relationship to a part-time relationship 

The employer is entitled to change the employment relationship unilaterally into a part-time 

relationship on the termination grounds referred to in section 3, and observing the period of 

notice. 

Section 12 (456/2005) 

An employee’s right to employment leave 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 

Unless otherwise agreed by the employer and the employee after the employer has terminated the 

employment contract on the grounds provided in chapter 7, sections 3 and 4 or section 7, the 

employee is entitled to fully paid leave in order to participate during their period of notice in the 

preparation of an employment plan as referred to in the Act on Public Employment and Business 

Service (916/2012), in labour market training or related practical training or on-the-job learning, or 

to engage in job seeking and attend job interviews on their own initiative or at the initiative of the 

authorities, or to attend re-assignment coaching. (920/2012) 

The duration of employment leave is determined in accordance with the duration of the period of 

notice as follows: 

1) a maximum of five working days in total, if the period of notice does not exceed one month; 

2) a maximum of 10 working days in total, if the period of notice is longer than one month but 

does not exceed four months; 

3) a maximum of 20 working days in total, if the period of notice is more than four months. 

Before taking employment leave or part thereof, the employee shall inform the employer regarding 

the leave and the grounds therefore as early as possible, and shall, upon request, present a 

reliable account on the grounds for each leave. 

Taking employment leave shall not substantially inconvenience the employer. 

Section 12a (672/2022)  

Special right to employment leave for a person aged 55 years or more 

Notwithstanding the provisions of section 12, the duration of employment leave shall be 

determined as follows if an employee has reached the age of 55 years at the time of dismissal and 

the employment relationship has continued for not less than five years without interruption, or 

with interruptions lasting for no more than a total of 30 days: 

1) no longer than a total of 5 working days if the period of notice does not exceed one month; 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38 

2) no longer than a total of 15 working days if the period of notice is longer than one month but 

no longer than four months; 

3) no longer than a total of 25 working days if the period of notice is longer than four months. 

In addition to the provisions of section 12, subsection 1, employment leave may also be used for 

the restructuring protection training referred to in chapter 5a of the Act on Public Employment and 

Business Service, and for conducting a competence and working capacity assessment. 

Section 13 (1339/2021) 

Coaching or training to further the employment prospects of an employee given notice 

The employer is obligated to offer an employee to whom it has given notice on grounds set out in 

section 3, the opportunity to take part in employer-funded coaching or training to further the 

prospects of finding employment if: 

1) the employer regularly employs at least 30 people; and 

2) the employee has been employed by the employer for an uninterrupted period of at least five 

years before the termination of the employment relationship. 

The value of the coaching or training must at least correspond to the employee’s imputed pay for 

one month or the average monthly earnings of personnel at the same place of work as the 

employee given notice, whichever is the greater. The coaching or training shall be provided within 

a two-month period following the end of the period of notice. Where there are serious grounds, 

the coaching or training may be provided later than this. However, by the end of the employment 

relationship the employee must be aware of the date or estimated date of the coaching or training 

provision. 

The employer and the employee may agree that the employer will meet its obligation referred to in 

subsection 1 by paying in part or in full for training or coaching procured by the employee 

themselves. 

The employer and the personnel may agree otherwise in respect of the provision of subsection 2 

concerning specification of the value. The employer and the personnel may also agree on other 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 

arrangements instead of coaching or training for furthering the employment prospects of an 

employee given notice. The personnel representative is determined in accordance with section 5 of 

the Cooperation Act (1333/2021), section 6 of the Act on Cooperation in Government Agencies and 

Public Bodies (1233/2013), or section 3 of the Act on Cooperation between Employers and 

Employees in Municipalities and Wellbeing Services Counties (449/2007). An agreement made by a 

personnel representative binds all employees whom the representative can be considered to 

represent. 

Section 14 (1467/2016) 

Neglect of coaching or training for furthering employment prospects 

An employer that has not complied with the obligation laid down for it in section 13 is obligated to 

pay a lump sum compensation to the employee of an amount corresponding to the value of the 

training or coaching. 

If the obligation to arrange coaching or training has been neglected only in part, the obligation to 

compensate shall be limited to an amount corresponding to the extent by which the obligation was 

neglected. 

Chapter 8 

Cancellation of employment contract 

Section 1 

Grounds for cancellation 

The employer is only upon an extremely weighty cause entitled to cancel an employment contract 

with an immediate effect regardless of the applicable period of notice or the duration of the 

employment contract. Such a cause may be deemed to exist in case the employee commits a 

breach against or neglects duties based on the employment contract or the law and having an 

essential impact on the employment relationship in such a serious manner as to render it 

unreasonable to expect that the employer should continue the contractual relationship even for the 

period of notice. 

Correspondingly, the employee shall be entitled to terminate the employment contract with 

immediate effect if the employer commits a breach against or neglects its duties based on the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40 

employment contract or the law and having essential impact on the employment relationship in 

such a serious manner as to render it unreasonable to expect that the employee should continue 

the contractual relationship even for the period of notice. 

Section 2 

Lapse of cancellation right 

The right to cancellation lapses if the employment contract is not cancelled within 14 days of the 

date on which the contracting party is informed of the existence of the cancellation grounds 

referred to in section 1. 

If cancellation is prevented for a valid reason, it may take place within 14 days of the date on 

which the impediment ceases to exist. 

Section 3 

Deeming the employment contract cancelled 

If the employee has been absent from work for a minimum of seven days without notifying the 

employer of a valid reason for the absence for this period, the employer is entitled to consider the 

employment contract cancelled from the date on which the absence began. 

If the employer is absent from the workplace for a minimum of seven days without notifying the 

employee of a valid reason for this absence, the employee shall be entitled to consider the 

employment contract cancelled. 

If it has been impossible to notify the other contracting party because of an acceptable 

impediment, the cancellation of the employment contract shall be null and void. 

Chapter 9 

Procedure for terminating an employment contract 

Section 1 

Appealing to the grounds for termination 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41 

The employer must effect termination of the employment contract within a reasonable period after 

being informed of the existence of the grounds related to the person of the employee referred on 

in chapter 7, section 2. 

Section 2 

Hearing the employee and the employer 

Before the employer terminates an employment contract on the grounds referred to in chapter 7, 

section 2, or cancels it for a reason referred to in chapter 1, section 4, or chapter 8, section 1, the 

employer shall provide the employee with an opportunity to be heard concerning the grounds for 

termination. The employee is entitled to resort to an assistant when being heard. 

Before the employee cancels an employment contract on the grounds referred to in chapter 8, 

section 1, the employee must provide the employer with an opportunity to be heard concerning 

the grounds for cancellation. 

Section 3 (204/2017) 

Employer's duty to explain 

Prior to terminating the employment contract on the grounds referred to in chapter 7, sections 3 

or 7, the employer must explain to the employee to be dismissed the grounds for termination of 

employment and the alternatives. If the employment contract is terminated pursuant to chapter 7, 

section 8, the bankrupt's or death estate must present to the employees as soon as possible a 

clarification of the grounds of the employment contract’s termination. 

If the termination concerns more than one employee, the explanation may be given to a 

representative of the employees or, if no such representative has been elected, to the employees 

jointly. 

If the employer is, under law, agreement or other binding provision, required to negotiate on the 

grounds for termination with the employees or their representatives, the employer is not required 

to provide the explanation referred to in subsections 1 and 2. 

Section 3 a (163/2020) 

Employer’s notification to Employment and Economic Development Offices 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42 

The employer shall immediately submit a report to the Employment and Economic Development 

Office of the termination of an employment contract, if the employer has terminated the 

employment contract of at least ten employees and this was due to the financial or production-

related reasons referred to in sections 3, 4, 7 or 8 of Chapter 7. 

The notification mentioned in subsection 1 must include the number of employees, whose 

employment contract will be terminated, their professions or job descriptions and the date on 

when their employment contract will end. 

Section 3 b (672/2022) 

Employer’s obligation to provide information on certain employment services 

When terminating employment that has continued for not less than five years without interruption, 

or with interruptions lasting for no more than a total of 30 days, an employer shall be required to 

inform an employee who has reached the age of 55 years of the employee’s right to the 

restructuring protection training referred to in chapter 5a of the Act on Public Employment and 

Business Service, and to the restructuring protection allowance referred to in chapter 9 of the 

Unemployment Security Act. 

In the cases referred to in section 3a, the employer shall be required to inform the employee of 

their right to the employment plan referred to in the Act on Public Employment and Business 

Service. 

Section 4 

Delivery of notice on the termination of an employment contract 

A notice on termination of an employment contract shall be delivered to the employer or its 

representative, or to the employee, in person. If this is not possible, the notice may be delivered 

by letter or electronically. The notice is then deemed to have been received by the recipient at the 

latest on the seventh day after the notice was sent. 

If the employee is on annual vacation in accordance with law or contract or on a holiday of at least 

two weeks given in order to balance out working hours, termination of the employment 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43 

relationship based on a notice delivered by letter or electronically shall not be regarded as 

delivered until the date following the end of the vacation or holiday at the earliest. 

If a notice terminating the employment contract is delivered by letter or electronically, it shall be 

deemed that the grounds referred to in chapter 1, section 4, and the grounds for termination of an 

employment contract referred to in chapter 8, section 1, have been referred to within the agreed 

or required time if the notice has been handed in for delivery by mail or sent electronically within 

that period. 

Section 5 

Notifying the employee of the grounds for termination 

At the employee's request, the employer shall notify the employee without delay in writing of the 

date of termination of the employment contract and of the grounds for termination or cancellation 

known by the employer to have caused the termination. 

Chapter 10 

Invalidity of employment contract and unreasonable terms 

Section 1 

Invalidity under the Contracts Act 

If the employment contract does not bind the employee on the basis of invalidity grounds laid 

down in chapter 3 of the Contracts Act, the employee is entitled, instead of resorting to the 

invalidity of the contract, to terminate the employment contract immediately, unless the invalidity 

grounds have lost their significance. 

Section 2 

Unreasonable terms 

If application of a term or condition in the employment contract is contrary to good practice or 

otherwise unreasonable, the term or condition may be adjusted or ignored. 

Section 3 

Impact of null and void terms 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 

If a term or condition in the employment contract is null and void on account of being in conflict 

with a provision protecting the employee, the employment contract shall be applied in other 

respects. 

Section 4 

Invalidity based on legal incompetence 

The employer shall not appeal to invalidity of contract because of an employee's legal 

incompetence as long as the legally incompetent person meets own contractual obligations. 

Chapter 11 (448/2016) 

Employment contracts of an international nature and the applicable law 

Section 1 (448/2016) 

Law applicable to employment contract 

Work performed in Finland is governed by Finnish employment legislation if the employment 

contract does not specify connections with other states. 

If the employment contract specifies a connection with two or more states, the law applicable to 

the employment contract is determined in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 593/2008 of the 

European Parliament and of the Council on the law applicable to contractual obligations (Rome I). 

Section 2 (448/2016) 

Employees performing work by virtue of the free movement of labour 

The terms of employment of citizens of the European Union and of the European Economic Area 

who perform work in Finland by virtue of the free movement of labour shall be equal to the terms 

applied to Finnish employees in the manner laid down in Regulation (EU) No 492/2011 of the 

European Union and of the Council on freedom of movement of workers within the Union. The 

terms of employment of Swiss citizens performing work in Finland by virtue of the free movement 

of labour shall be equal to the terms applied to Finnish employees in the manner agreed in 

Luxembourg on 21 June 1999 in the Agreement between the European Community and its 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45 

Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other, on the free movement 

of persons (Finnish Treaty Series 38/2002). 

Discrimination in the terms of employment on the grounds of nationality is prohibited in the 

manner laid down in the Non-Discrimination Act and in international agreements binding on 

Finland. 

Section 3 (448/2016) 

Posted employees 

Provisions on the minimum terms of the contractual employment relationships of workers posted 

to Finland on the basis of the cross-border provision of services, and on their employment 

conditions, are laid down in the Act on Posting Workers (447/2016). 

Section 4 (918/2017) 

Employees referred to in the Act on the Conditions of Entry and Residence of Third-

Country Nationals in the Framework of an Intra-Corporate Transfer 

Provisions on determination of the terms of employment of employees whose entry to the country 

is based on the Act on the Conditions of Entry and Residence of Third-Country Nationals in the 

Framework of an Intra-Corporate Transfer (908/2017) are laid down in section 1a of the Act on 

Posting Workers. 

Chapter 11a (451/2012) 

Employers' joint and several liabilities in employing illegally resident employees 

Section 1 (451/2012) 

Scope of application 

The provisions of this chapter are applied to an employer who has employed a third-country 

national, within the meaning of section 3, paragraph 2a of the Aliens Act (301/2004), who is 

staying illegally in the country. The provisions are also applied to the employer's contracting party 

and other contracting parties, as provided hereafter in this chapter. 

Section 2 (451/2012) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46 

Subcontractor and contractor 

In this chapter: 

1) subcontractor means any contracting party acting as an employer who has concluded an 

agreement with an orderer to achieve a certain result in exchange for compensation; 

2) contractor means any legal or natural person on whose premises or work site located in Finland 

an employee employed by a subcontractor is working; 

3) main contractor means any legal or natural person on whose premises or work site located in 

Finland several subcontractors referred to in paragraph 1 are working as contractors referred to in 

paragraph 2. 

Section 3 (451/2012) 

Financial sanction 

An employer who has hired an employee or employees referred to in section 1 shall be liable to 

pay a financial sanction of a minimum of EUR 1,000 and a maximum of EUR 30,000. 

The minimum and maximum amounts of the sanction shall be revised every three years by 

government decree, to match any change in monetary value. 

Section 4 (451/2012) 

Factors affecting the amount of the financial sanction 

When determining the size of the financial sanction, the following shall be taken into account: 

whether the employer's infringement is intentional and persistently repeated, other circumstances 

surrounding the establishment of the employment relationship and the terms thereof, and the 

number of employees referred to in section 1. 

The financial sanction may be reduced if a natural person has hired an employee for private 

purposes and if the employee's working conditions are not particularly exploitative. 

Section 5 (451/2012) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Costs of return 

47 

An employer on whom a financial sanction referred to in section 3 is imposed shall be liable to 

compensate for the costs of returning employees referred to in section 1 in cases where the return 

procedures have been implemented, provided that the employer has, through their own actions, 

influenced the employees' entry or residence. 

Section 6 (451/2012) 

Imposing a financial sanction and compensating for the costs of return 

The Finnish Immigration Service shall order the employer and the contractor, within the meaning 

of sections 10 and 11, to pay a financial sanction referred to in section 3 and the costs or return 

referred to in section 5, by a date specified in the decision. If the financial sanction and costs of 

return are also imposed on the contractor or other subcontractor acting as a contractor, as 

specified in sections 10 and 11, the employer, contractor, or other subcontractor acting as a 

contractor shall be jointly and severally liable for the sanction and costs of return. 

A financial sanction may not be imposed if the matter concerned has not been instituted within 

two years of the termination of the employee's employment relationship. The financial sanction 

and costs of return shall expire after five years from the beginning of the year in which they were 

imposed. 

The financial sanction and costs of return are payable to the state. The Act on the Enforcement of 

a Fine (672/2002) is applied in the implementation of financial sanctions. 

A financial sanction may not be imposed on anyone who is suspected of the same act in a criminal 

matter in which pre-trial investigation, consideration of charges, or a trial is pending. Additionally, 

a financial sanction may not be imposed on anyone who has been legally sentenced to punishment 

for the same act. The Finnish Immigration Service shall, upon application, cancel a financial 

sanction if the party on whom it was imposed is suspected of the same act in a criminal matter 

pending in a court of law or is later sentenced to punishment for the same act. 

Section 7 (73/2017) 

Right of appeal 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48 

An appeal against a decision referred to in this chapter may be made to an administrative court in 

the manner laid down in the Administrative Judicial Procedure Act (586/1996). The decision of the 

administrative court may be appealed against only if the Supreme Administrative Court grants 

leave to appeal. 

Section 8 (451/2012) 

Sending back-payments and duration of employment 

The employer shall be liable to pay the costs arising from sending back-payments to the country to 

which an employee referred to in section 1 has returned or has been returned. 

An employment relationship of at least three months is presumed unless the employer or the 

employee can prove otherwise. 

Section 9 (451/2012) 

Contractor's liability for payments to an employee 

Where the employer of an employee referred to in section 1 is a subcontractor, the subcontractor's 

direct contractor and the employer shall be jointly and severally liable to make the following 

payments to the employee: 

1) any outstanding remuneration; 

2) the remuneration payable for additional work and overtime, and increased wages payable for 

Sunday work, as laid down in section 20 of the Working Time Act (872/2019); 

3) holiday pay as provided in chapter 3 of the Annual Holidays Act (162/2005) and holiday 

compensation as provided in chapter 4 of the same act. 

The contractor shall be liable to pay the costs referred to in section 8, subsection 1, as provided in 

subsection 1. The contractor may also prove that its liability for the payments to an employee as 

set out in subsection 1 concern a period other than the one referred to in section 8, subsection 2. 

Section 10 (451/2012) 

Contractor's liability for a financial sanction and costs of return 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49 

Where the employer of an employee referred to in section 1 is a subcontractor, the subcontractor's 

direct contractor and the employer shall be jointly and severally liable to pay the financial sanction 

provided in section 3 and the costs of return referred to in section 5. 

A financial sanction may be imposed on the contractor only if it is also imposed on the employer. 

The contractor may be ordered to pay the costs of return if the contractor has influenced the 

illegally resident employee's entry or residence. 

Section 11 (451/2012) 

Main contractor's liability 

The main contractor or other subcontractor acting as a contractor, shall be jointly and severally 

liable to pay the financial sanction provided in section 3 and the employee's remuneration and 

costs provided in section 9, if they knew that the employee was staying illegally in the country, as 

well as the costs of return, if the main contractor or other subcontractor acting as a contractor has 

influenced the illegally resident employee's entry or residence. 

Section 12 (451/2012) 

Contractors' right of recourse 

The direct contractor, main contractor, and other subcontractor acting as a contractor are entitled 

to claim back from the subcontractor who is or has been the employer of an employee referred to 

in section 1 the amount that they, in addition to or in place of the employer, have paid according 

to sections 9–11 in the form of financial sanctions, costs of return, or the employee's remuneration 

or costs. 

Section 13 (451/2012) 

Exemption from liability 

The employer, direct contractor, main contractor, and other subcontractor acting as a contractor 

shall not be liable to pay the financial sanction provided in section 3, or the costs of return 

provided in section 5, if a valid document presented as an employee's residence permit, or other 

document confirming the employee’s right of residence, was forged and the employer, direct 

contractor, main contractor, or other subcontractor acting as a contractor was unaware of this. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50 

The direct contractor, main contractor, and other subcontractor acting as a contractor shall not be 

liable to pay the employee's remuneration and costs provided in section 9 if the document referred 

to in subsection 1 was forged and the direct contractor, main contractor, or other subcontractor 

acting as a contractor was unaware of this. 

Furthermore, the direct contractor shall not be liable to pay the financial sanction provided in 

section 3, the costs of return provided in section 5, or the employee's remuneration and costs 

provided in section 9, if the direct contractor can prove that it has obtained the accounts and 

certificates referred to in section 5 of the Act on the Contractor's Obligations and Liability when 

Work is Contracted Out (1233/2006) from the employing subcontractor and if the direct contractor 

has ensured, through contracts concluded with the subcontractor or by other available means, that 

the employees used by the employer have residence permits for an employed person as set out in 

the Aliens Act, or other documents granting them a right of residence. 

Before making a decision, the Finnish Immigration Service shall request a statement from the 

occupational safety and health authorities on whether the contractor referred to in subsection 3 

has adhered to section 5 of the Act on the Contractor's Obligations and Liability when Work is 

Contracted Out. The person making the decision must comply with the statement. 

Chapter 12 

Liability for damages 

Section 1 

General liability 

If the employer intentionally or through negligence commits a breach against obligations arising 

from the employment relationship or this Act, it shall be liable for the loss thus caused to the 

employee. 

In derogation from the provisions of subsection 1 above, liability for termination of the 

employment contract contrary to the grounds laid down in chapter 1, section 4, or in chapters 7 or 

8 is determined under section 2. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51 

If the employee intentionally or through negligence commits a breach against, or neglects 

obligations arising from, the employment contract or this Act or at work causes a loss to the 

employer, the employee shall be liable to the employer for the loss thus caused in accordance with 

the grounds laid down in chapter 4, section 1, of the Tort Liability Act (412/1974). 

The compensation for neglecting to observe the period of notice is determined under chapter 6, 

section 4. Chapter 5, section 7, subsection 3 lays down provisions on the entitlement of an 

employee who has been laid off for a minimum of 200 days, and who terminates the employment 

relationship, to receive compensation equivalent to pay or part of it for the period of notice. 

Section 2 

Compensation for groundless termination of an employment contract 

If the employer has terminated an employment contract contrary to the grounds laid down in this 

Act, it must be ordered to pay compensation for unjustified termination of the employment 

contract. If the employee has cancelled the employment contract on the grounds laid down in 

chapter 8, section 1, arising from the employer's intentional or negligent actions, the employer 

must be ordered to pay compensation for unjustified termination of the employment contract. The 

exclusive compensation must be equivalent to the pay due for a minimum of three months or a 

maximum of 24 months. Nevertheless, the maximum amount due to be paid to shop stewards 

elected on the basis of a collective agreement or to elected representatives referred to below in 

chapter 13, section 3, is equivalent to the pay due for 30 months. 

Depending on the reason for terminating the employment relationship, the following factors must 

be taken into account in determining the amount of compensation: estimated time without 

employment and estimated loss of earnings, the remaining period of a fixed-term employment 

contract, the duration of the employment relationship, the employee's age and chances of finding 

employment corresponding to the employee’s vocation or education and training, the employer's 

procedure in terminating the contract, any motive for termination originating in the employee, the 

general circumstances of the employee and the employer, and other comparable matters. In 

determining the compensation, account must be taken of any compensation adjudicated for the 

same act by virtue of the Non-discrimination Act. (1331/2014) 

If the employer has terminated the employment contract contrary to the grounds laid down in 

chapter 7, sections 3 or 7, or cancelled it contrary to the grounds laid down in chapter 1, section 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52 

4, or solely contrary to the grounds laid down in chapter 8, section 1, the provision in subsection 1 

on minimum compensation shall not apply. 

Section 3 (1448/2016) 

Impact of daily unemployment allowance on payment of indemnities and 

compensation 

Where a compensation ordered under section 2 above is compensation for loss of emoluments due 

to unemployment before a ruling is pronounced or delivered, the following deductions shall be 

made: 

1) 75 per cent of the daily earnings-related unemployment allowance as referred to in the 

Unemployment Security Act (1290/2002) paid to the employee for the period in question; 

2) 80 per cent of the basic unemployment allowance referred to in the Unemployment Security Act 

paid to the employee for the period; and 

3) the labour market subsidy paid to the employee for the period under the Unemployment 

Security Act. 

A court may, if warranted by the amount of the compensation and by the employee's financial and 

social circumstances and the insult suffered by the employee, reduce the amount deductible from 

the compensation referred to in subsection 1 or waive the deduction in total . 

When processing a matter referred to in subsection 1, paragraph 1, above, a court shall provide 

the Unemployment Insurance Fund and the unemployment fund with an opportunity to be heard. 

The court must order the employer to pay the sum deducted from the compensation to the 

Unemployment Insurance Fund, and inform it of the legally valid ruling or decision in the matter. 

What is herein laid down pertaining to the Unemployment Insurance Fund shall correspondingly 

apply to the Social Insurance Institution when a matter referred to in subsection 1, paragraphs 2 

or 3, is processed. 

When an agreement is made on the amount of the employer’s liability, it must separately mention 

the total compensation agreed under section 2 and the compensation included therein paid to the 

employee for loss of emoluments due to unemployment before the agreement is made. The 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
53 

deductions prescribed in subsections 1 and 2 of this section shall be made from the compensation. 

The employer is responsible for paying the sum deducted from the compensation to the 

Unemployment Insurance Fund or the Social Insurance Institution and for sending a copy of the 

agreement to the Unemployment Insurance Fund or the Social Insurance Institution. 

What is laid down above on compensation ordered under section 2 also applies to compensation 

ordered under section 1, subsection 1, for groundless lay-off. 

Chapter 13 

Miscellaneous provisions 

Section 1 

Freedom of association 

Employers and employees have the right to belong to associations and to be active in them. They 

also have the right to establish lawful associations. Employers and employees are likewise free not 

to belong to any of the associations referred to above. Prevention or restriction of this right or 

freedom is prohibited. 

Any agreement contrary to the freedom of association is null and void. 

Section 2 

Right of assembly 

The employer must allow employees and their organisations to use suitable facilities under the 

employer's control free of charge during breaks and outside working hours in order to deal with 

employment issues and matters forming part of the function of trade unions. Exercise of this right 

of assembly must not have a harmful impact on the employer's operations. 

Section 3 

Elected representative 

Employees who do not have a shop steward referred to in a collective agreement applicable to the 

employer under the Collective Agreements Act may elect a representative from among themselves. 

The duties and scope of competence of such an elected representative are determined in the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
54 

manner laid down separately in this Act and elsewhere in the labour legislation. The employees 

may further take majority decisions to authorise the elected representative to represent them in 

matters of employment relationships and working conditions specified in the authorisation. 

Elected representatives are entitled to any information that they need to carry out the duties 

referred to in law and to sufficient release from work obligations. The employer must compensate 

for any loss of earnings caused thereby. Release from work obligations in order for the elected 

representative to carry out other duties and compensation for any loss of earnings must be agreed 

on with the employer. 

Chapter 7, section 10, lays down provisions concerning protection of elected representatives from 

termination. 

Section 4 

Elected representatives and assignment of business 

Elected representatives retain the status laid down in section 3 if the business or part thereof 

keeps its independence following assignment. If an elected representative's term comes to an end 

as a result of assignment of the business, the representative has the protection against 

termination laid down in chapter 7, section 10, for six months from the end of the term. 

Section 5 (1448/2016) 

Accommodation benefit 

The employee is entitled to use a dwelling provided as emolument for a period during which work 

has been interrupted for an acceptable reason and on termination of the employment relationship 

during the period laid down as the lessor's period of notice in section 92 of the Act on Residential 

Leases (481/1995). If the employment relationship is terminated on account of the employee's 

death, the members of the employee's family living in the dwelling are entitled to use the dwelling 

after the employee's death for the same period as the employee would have been entitled to do, 

though not for more than three months. 

After termination of the employment relationship, the employer may not charge more per square 

metre for use of a dwelling than an amount equivalent to the maximum housing costs laid down in 

the Act on General Housing Allowance (938/2014). The employee or their family must be notified 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
55 

of such a charge. This remuneration may be charged as from the beginning of the month 

immediately following a period of 14 days after the notification. 

Correspondingly, the employer is entitled to charge a remuneration for use of a dwelling if the 

employer's pay obligation is suspended while the employment relationship continues. 

Remuneration must not be charged before the beginning of the second full calendar month after 

cessation of the pay obligation. The employee must be notified of this remuneration at least one 

month before the obligation to pay such remuneration begins. 

If an urgent reason exists, the employer may place another suitable dwelling at the disposal of the 

employee or the family of a deceased employee for the period of suspension of work referred to in 

subsection 1 and for a period following termination of the employment relationship. Any 

consequent removal costs must be paid by the employer. 

Section 6 (1458/2016) 

Mandatory nature of provisions 

Any agreement reducing the rights of and benefits due to employees under this Act shall be null 

and void unless otherwise provided in this Act. 

Notwithstanding the obligation to offer work as laid down in chapter 2, section 5, chapter 5, 

section 2 and chapter 6, section 6 above: 

1) a municipality may hire someone for a contractual employment relationship in order to fulfil its 

employment obligation laid down in chapter 11, section 1 of the Act on Public Business and 

Employment Service, but not for a position from which it has laid off a municipal employee at the 

same time or for which it has issued a lay-off notice to a municipal employee; 

2) an association or foundation may employ an unemployed person referred to in chapter 7, 

section 8, subsection 1, paragraph 3 of the Act on Public Business and Employment Service for 

tasks not considered to be business activities; 

3) a municipality, joint municipal authority, association or foundation may employ someone for a 

wage-subsidised contractual employment relationship referred to in the Act on Public Business and 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56 

Employment Service in a workshop or similar coaching unit for tasks that are not otherwise 

performed in a contractual or public-service employment relationship. 

Notwithstanding chapter 5, section 2 above, a municipality, joint municipal authority, association 

or foundation can employ someone for a work trial referred to in the Act on Public Business and 

Employment Service in a workshop or similar coaching unit for tasks that are not otherwise 

performed in a contractual or public-service employment relationship. 

Notwithstanding the obligation to offer work as laid down in chapter 2, section 5 and chapter 6, 

section 6 above, the employer and a student may enter into an apprenticeship contract referred to 

in the Vocational Education and Training Act (531/2017) or in the legislation on the Province of 

Åland. (296/2018) 

Section 7 

Derogation under a collective agreement 

In derogation from what is laid down in section 6, national employer and employee associations 

are entitled to agree on what is laid down in: 

1) chapter 1, section 5 on benefits related to the duration of employment relationship; 

2) chapter 1, section 11, subsection 3 concerning the obligation to review and to offer a new 

working hours clause, or the obligation to provide information referred to in subsection 4 of the 

said section, provided that the agreement satisfies the requirements laid down in Article 14 of 

Directive (EU) 2019/1152 of the European Parliament and of the Council on transparent and 

predictable working conditions in the European Union; (744/2022)  

3) chapter 2, section 5 on the employer's primary obligation to offer work to a part-time employee; 

3a) chapter 2, section 6, subsection 2 concerning the obligation to provide a written response, 

provided that the agreement satisfies the requirements laid down in Article 14 of Directive (EU) 

2019/1152 of the European Parliament and of the Council on transparent and predictable working 

conditions in the European Union; (744/2022)  

4) chapter 2, section 11 on pay during illness; 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
57 

5) chapter 2, section 13 on payday and the pay period; 

5a) chapter 2, section 19 concerning the gratuitousness of compulsory training, the requirement to 

schedule training at the time of normal work shifts, or to count it as working time where not 

otherwise provided in the Working Time Act; nevertheless provided that the agreement satisfies 

the requirements laid down in Article 14 of Directive (EU) 2019/1152 of the European Parliament 

and of the Council on transparent and predictable working conditions in the European Union; 

(744/2022) ) 

6) chapter 5, section 2, subsection 1, paragraph 2 and subsection 2 on the grounds for lay-offs, 

but not to extend the maximum duration of the lay-off referred to in subsection 1, paragraph 2; 

7) chapter 5, section 3 on advance explanation and hearing the employee; 

8) chapter 5, section 4 on lay-off notices; 

9) chapter 5, section 7, subsection 2 on the employer's right to deduct the pay due for the lay-off 

notice period from the pay due for the period of notice in the case of termination; 

10) chapter 6, section 4a on the criterion for determining reimbursable loss of income; 

11) chapter 6, section 6 on re-employment of an employee; 

12) chapter 7, section 4 on the extent of the area covered by the obligation to offer work; 

13) chapter 7, section 13, the right of an employee given notice to receive coaching or training to 

further their employment prospects; 

14) chapter 9 on the procedure for termination of an employment contract. 

(377/2018) 

The employer may also apply the provisions laid down in collective agreements and referred to in 

subsection 1 above to the employment relationships of employees who are not bound by collective 

agreement but in whose employment relationships the employer is required to observe the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
58 

provisions of a collective agreement in accordance with the Collective Agreements Act. If so 

agreed in the employment contract, said provisions of the collective agreement may be observed 

after expiry of the collective agreement until a new collective agreement enters into force in 

employment relationships to which these provisions would apply if the collective agreement 

continued to be in force. 

What is provided in this section on national associations of employers applies correspondingly to 

the State negotiating authority and other State contract authorities, the Local Government 

Agreements Committee, the Agreements Committee of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, the 

Orthodox Church of Finland, the Provincial Government of Åland and the municipal delegation for 

collective agreements of the Province of Åland. 

Section 8 

Provisions in a generally applicable collective agreement in derogation from the Act 

Employers who are required to observe a generally applicable collective agreement as referred to 

in chapter 2, section 7, may observe the provisions referred to in section 7 of this chapter within 

the scope of application of this collective agreement if such application does not call for a local 

agreement. What is provided in the second sentence of section 7, subsection 2then applies. 

Section 9 (743/2003) 

Limitation and period for court proceedings 

Employees’ pay claims become statute-barred five years after the due date, unless the period of 

limitation has been interrupted before that time. The same period of limitation also applies to 

other claims referred to in this Act. 

However, the period of limitation concerning bodily injury caused to an employee is ten years. 

After the termination of employment, a claim as referred to in subsection 1 will expire unless suit 

is filed within two years of the date on which the employment ended. If the provisions of the 

collective agreement on which the employee’s claims are based are manifestly ambiguous, 

however, the claim will become statute-barred as laid down in subsection 1. 

Section 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Availability 

59 

The employer shall make this Act and the generally applicable collective agreement referred to in 

chapter 2, section 7, freely available to employees at the place of work. 

Section 11 (744/2022) 

Penal provisions 

The penalty for violation of the non-discrimination provision laid down in chapter 2, section 2, is 

laid down in chapter 47, section 3, of the Criminal Code of Finland (39/1889); the penalty for 

violation of the freedom of association provision stipulated in chapter 13, section 1, is laid down in 

chapter 47, section 5, of the Criminal Code of Finland ; and the penalty for violation of the rights 

of shop stewards referred to in chapter 7, section 10, or of elected representatives referred to in 

chapter 13, section 3, is laid down in chapter 47, section 4, of the Criminal Code of Finland. 

If an employer or its representative intentionally or through negligence commits a breach of 

1) the provisions of chapter 2, section 4, subsection 1 or 3, on the obligation to provide an 

employee with written information on the principal terms of work; 

2) the provisions of chapter 2, section 17, subsection 1, on restriction of employer’s right of set-off 

and advance; 

3) the provisions of chapter 6, section 7, on employer’s obligation to provide the employee with a 

certificate of employment; 

4) the provisions of chapter 13, section 2, on employee’s freedom of assembly at the place of 

work; or 

5) the provisions of chapter 13, section 10, on of the availability of this Act; 

a fine shall be imposed on the employer for violation of the Employment Contracts Act. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60 

A fine shall also be imposed for violation of the Employment Contracts Act on the employer who 

despite the request to do so, in violation of chapter 2, section 16, subsection 2, neglects to submit 

the payslip to the employee.  

The liability of the employer and its representative, respectively, is determined on the basis of the 

grounds laid down in chapter 47, section 7, of the Criminal Code of Finland. 

Section 12 

Supervision 

The occupational safety and health authorities shall supervise the observance of this Act. In their 

supervisory functions, and in particular when supervising the observance of generally applicable 

collective agreements, these authorities must act in close cooperation with the employer and 

employee associations whose generally applicable collective agreements the employers are 

required to observe under chapter 2, section 7. 

On request, the occupational safety and health authorities are entitled to be provided by the 

employer with copies of documents which they need for the supervision and a detailed report on 

agreements concluded orally. 

Chapter 14 

Transitional provisions and entry into force 

Section 1 

Entry into force 

This Act shall enter into force on 1 June 2001. 

Section 2 

Provisions repealed 

This Act repeals the Employment Contracts Act issued on 30 April 1970 (320/1970) and 

subsequent amendments to it. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
61 

If another act or decree refers to the Employment Contracts Act valid at the time when this act 

comes into force, this Act must be applied instead. 

Section 3 

Transitional provisions 

In employment relationships in which the employer must observe or is allowed to observe a 

collective agreement concluded on the basis of section 17, subsections 1 and 2, of the 

Employment Contracts Act valid before this Act comes into force, the employer may apply its 

provisions derogating from this Act up to expiry of the collective agreement, unless the collective 

agreement is amended before that. 

Section 17, subsections 1 and 2, of the Employment Contracts Act valid before this Act comes into 

force must be applied until the general applicability of the collective agreement has been 

confirmed in the manner referred to in the Act on Confirmation of the General Applicability of 

Collective Agreements, and the decision has become legally valid. 

The employer's obligation as laid down in chapter 13, section 10 to make the generally applicable 

collective agreement referred to in chapter 2, section 7, available to employees begins from the 

date on which the decision on the confirmation of general applicability is delivered to the Statute 

Book maintained by the Ministry of Justice referred to in section 6 of the Act on Collections of 

Regulations Issued by Ministries and other State Authorities (189/2000) and the generally 

applicable collective agreement has been published in the manner laid down in section 14 of the 

Act on Confirmation of the General Applicability of Collective Agreements. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
