1(35) 

Translation from Finnish 

Legally binding only in Finnish and Swedish 

Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment, Finland 

Working Time Act  

(872/2019, amendments up to 746/2022 included)  

By decision of Parliament, the following is enacted: 

Chapter 1 

Scope of application 

Section 1 

General scope of application 

This Act shall apply to all work performed under an employment contract as referred to in section 

1, subsection 1 of the Employment Contracts Act (55/2001) or within a public-service relationship, 

unless otherwise provided elsewhere in law. Additional provisions on work performed by persons 

under the age of 18 are laid down in the Young Workers’ Act (998/1993). 

The provisions laid down in this Act concerning employees shall also apply to public servants and 

officeholders, unless otherwise provided elsewhere in law. The provisions laid down in this Act 

concerning collective agreements shall also apply to collective agreements for public servants. 

Section 2 

Derogations from the scope of application 

Except for section 15, subsections 3 and 4, this Act shall not apply to employees whose working 

hours cannot be determined in advance and whose use of working time is not subject to 

supervision and who may thus themselves decide their working hours in relation to the following: 

1) work which is to be considered management of an undertaking, corporation or foundation or an 

independent part thereof by virtue of the relevant duties and of the employee’s position otherwise, 

or independent work directly comparable to such management; 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2(35) 

2) employees who perform religious functions in the Evangelical Lutheran Church, Orthodox 

Church or another religious community; 

3) work performed by a member of the employer’s family; 

4) work which owing to the specific characteristics of the activities concerned is performed in 

conditions where it cannot be considered a duty of the employer to supervise arrangement of the 

time spent on the work; 

5) work performed by a State public servant as a court officer or referendary, junior district judge, 

trainee district judge, public legal aid attorney, prosecutor, bailiff, writ server or at a foreign 

mission; 

6) work performed by a public servant employed by the Bank of Finland and excluded from the 

scope of this Act by the Bank’s Parliamentary Supervisory Council. 

The provisions of section 24, subsections 1 and 2, and of sections 25–28 of this Act shall not apply 

to the work of motor vehicle drivers to which Regulation (EC) No 561/2006 of the European 

Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road 

transport and amending Council Regulations (EEC) No 3821/85 and (EC) No 2135/98 and 

repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 3820/85 (Driving Time and Rest Periods Regulation) 

applies. 

This Act shall not apply to work for which separate provisions are laid down governing the working 

time to be observed therein. This Act also shall not apply to employees who, when assessed as a 

whole, have, by a national collective agreement referred to in section 34, been secured protection 

equivalent with the rest periods and maximum working time under this Act in relation to the 

following: 

1) teaching and research personnel who, owing to the nature of the work, have the right to 

determine themselves a substantial part of their working hours; 

2) forest, forest improvement and timber-floating work or to related work, excluding mechanical 

forest and forest improvement work and short-distance timber transport performed off-road; 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3(35) 

3) Border Guard employees or duties referred to in the Pilotage Act (940/2003). 

This Act shall not apply to work by an employee of a non-profit organisation to the extent that 

such employee takes part in activities relating to events, competitions or camps when such 

activities are covered by a national collective agreement as referred to in section 34 that secures 

for the employee protection equivalent with the rest periods and maximum working time under 

this Act. 

Chapter 2  

Time constituting working time and stand-by 

Section 3  

Working time 

The time spent working and the time an employee is obliged to be present at a place of work at 

the employer’s disposal shall constitute working time. 

Time spent travelling shall not be regarded as working time unless such time is simultaneously to 

be considered performance of work. The employer’s duty to prevent excessive strain related to 

travel taking place outside working time shall be governed by the provisions laid down in sections 

10, 13 and 25 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act (738/2002). 

Section 4  

Stand-by 

An employer and an employee may agree on stand-by and the compensation paid for it. When on 

stand-by, the employee shall be available to the employer so that the employee can be called for 

work. Time spent on stand-by shall not be regarded as working time unless the employee is 

required to remain at the workplace or in its immediate vicinity. Stand-by may not unduly hamper 

the employee’s leisure time. 

The employee shall be aware of the amount of compensation for stand-by or the grounds for the 

determination of the compensation and of the terms of the stand-by when concluding an 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
4(35) 

agreement on stand-by. The restrictions imposed by stand-by on the employee’s leisure time shall 

be taken into consideration in the amount of the compensation. 

When stand-by duty is essential due to the nature of the work and for extremely compelling 

reasons, a public servant and officeholder cannot refuse it. 

Chapter 3  

Statutory organisation of regular working time 

Section 5 

General working time 

Regular working time shall not exceed eight hours per day or 40 hours per week. 

Weekly working time may be organised in such a way that it averages 40 hours over a period of 

no more than 52 weeks without exceeding the regular daily working time of eight hours. 

Section 6 

Shift work 

Regular working time may be organised in the form of shift work. 

In shift work, the shifts must change regularly and at intervals agreed upon in advance. Change is 

considered regular when a shift does not coincide for more than an hour with the shift immediately 

following or the shifts are no more than an hour apart.  

Section 7 

Period-based working time 

By way of derogation from the provisions laid down in section 5, regular working time may be 

organised so that it does not exceed 120 hours over a period of three weeks or 80 hours over a 

period of two weeks: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5(35) 

1) in security and guard duties, surveillance and traffic control duties, rescue duties and prison 

administration; 

2) in press services, editorial radio and television work, and comparable generation and 

transmission of online content, film production and postal services as well as in 

telecommunications services requiring night work; 

3) in family day care referred to in the Act on Early Childhood Education and Care (540/2018), 

other early childhood education and care services requiring night work, and in social welfare, 

health care and veterinary services operating for most of the day; 

4) in passenger and freight transportation and in the loading and unloading of ships and railway 

cars; 

5) in mechanical forest and forest improvement work and in short-distance timber transport, 

performed off-road; 

6) in dairy operations; 

7) in the hospitality and cultural sectors and in camp operations; 

8) in support functions essential to the ongoing performance of the duties and operations referred 

to in paragraphs 1–7. 

In order to organise work in a practical way or to avoid impractical shifts for employees, regular 

working time may, however, be organised so that it does not exceed 240 hours during two 

consecutive three-week or three consecutive two-week periods. Regular working time may not 

exceed 128 hours during either of the three-week periods or 88 hours during any of the two-week 

periods. 

Section 8 

Night work 

Work performed between 23:00 and 06:00 shall be regarded as night work. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6(35) 

Night work on a regular basis shall be permitted: 

1) in work that may be organised as period-based work as provided in section 7; 

2) in shift work; 

3) in maintenance and repair work that is essential to maintaining the regular operations of the 

employer; 

4) in work that cannot be performed at the same time as work regularly performed at the 

workplace; 

5) in the maintenance and cleaning of public roads, streets, other transport corridors and airports 

as well as means of transport; 

6) in pharmacies; 

7) at peat sites during the peat extraction season, and at sawmill drying houses; 

8) with the employee’s consent, at bakeries; however, no consent shall be required for work 

performed between 05:00 and 06:00; 

9) with the employee’s consent, in urgent sowing and harvesting, in work directly related to 

parturition or treatment of domestic animals, and in other agricultural work that owing to its 

nature cannot be postponed. 

However, the working time of a motor vehicle driver as referred to in section 2, subsection 2 who 

works four hours or more between 24:00 and 07:00 on a regular basis shall not exceed ten hours 

over a 24-hour period. 

Employers who regularly employ night workers shall bring this information to the attention of the 

occupational safety and health authority if it so requests.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7(35) 

In period-based work and in continuous shift work, an employee may, according to the work 

schedule, work no more than five consecutive shifts where at least three of the working hours fall 

between 23:00 and 06:00, after which the employee shall be given uninterrupted leave of at least 

24 hours. Two additional shifts as referred to above may be worked consecutively when the 

employee consents separately to both additional shifts. 

In especially hazardous work or work that is highly stressful either physically or mentally, the 

working time may not exceed eight hours over a period of 24 hours in which the employee 

performs night work. More specific provisions may be laid down by Government Decree or more 

specific regulations agreed by collective agreement as to when work is to be considered to be 

especially hazardous or highly stressful either physically or mentally. 

Section 8a (1405/2019) 

Night worker’s right to transport to work  

The employer must organise transport to work for a night worker if  

1) transport to work is necessary and common in the area  

2) if there is no satisfactory public transport available with regard to routes or timetables at the 

time when the work shift begins or ends; and  

3) the worker has no car or other vehicle at their disposal.  

There is no right to transport to work if the worker cannot use a car because of a driving ban 

imposed for a criminal offence or violation.  

For transport to work, the employer can charge the employee a fee equivalent to the fee paid for 

the use of public transport. 

The employer shall negotiate with the staff before making the decision on organising transport to 

work.  

Section 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8(35) 

Daily working time of motor vehicle drivers  

The daily working time of a motor vehicle driver may not exceed 11 hours within the consecutive 

24-hour period following a daily rest period. 

When there is no other way practicably to organise the work of a motor vehicle driver, the daily 

working time may be extended to no more than 13 hours, provided that the working time does not 

exceed 22 hours within the 48-hour period following the daily rest period that follows the extended 

working hours. 

Chapter 4 

Regular working time based on agreement 

Section 10 

Regular working time based on collective agreement 

The right to agree regular working time by collective agreement shall be governed by section 34. 

Section 11 

Regular working time based on agreement between employer and employee  

An employer and an employee may agree to extend daily regular working time by no more than 

two hours subject to the provisions of the collective agreement applicable to the work concerning 

agreement on regular working time. In this case, the weekly regular working time shall average no 

more than 40 hours over a period of no more than four months. Weekly regular working time may 

not exceed 48 hours. 

The agreement may be concluded for a fixed term or indefinite term. An agreement concluded for 

an indefinite term or for a fixed term of at least two weeks shall be made in writing. 

An agreement on regular working time concluded for an indefinite term may be terminated to 

expire at the end of the adjustment period. A fixed-term agreement for a period of more than one 

year may be terminated after four months of conclusion in the same manner as an agreement 

concluded for an indefinite term. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9(35) 

Section 12 

Flexible working hours 

By way of derogation from section 5, subsection 1 and the provisions of a collective agreement 

concerning duration and timing of regular working time, an employer and an employee may 

agree on flexible working hours so that the employee may, within set limits, determine the timing 

of the daily working hours. When agreeing on flexible working hours, at least the following shall 

be agreed: 

1) consecutive fixed working hours; 

2) the daily limits for and placement of flexible working hours; 

3) the placement of rest periods; 

4) the maximum accumulation of hours in excess or in deficit of the regular working time. 

When working flexible hours, the daily regular working time shall be reduced or extended by a 

flexible period which shall not exceed four hours. Weekly regular working time may average no 

more than 40 hours over a reference period of four months and the employee may work more or 

less than this amount of hours within the set flexible working hours limits. At the end of the 

reference period, the accumulated excess hours may not exceed 60 hours and the accumulated 

deficit of hours may not exceed 20 hours. 

The employer and the employee may agree that the accumulated excess hours shall be reduced 

through paid leave given to the employee. At the employee’s request, the employer shall strive to 

give such leave in the form of full workdays. 

An agreement concerning flexible working hours concluded for an indefinite period may be 

terminated to expire at the end of the reference period. An agreement concluded for a fixed term 

of more than one year may be terminated after four months from its conclusion in the same 

manner as an agreement concluded for an indefinite term. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10(35) 

Section 13  

Flexiwork 

By way of derogation from the provisions of a collective agreement concerning duration and 

placement of regular working time, an employer and an employee may agree on flexiwork 

whereby the employee may independently decide on the placement and place of performance of 

at least half of the working time. When agreeing on flexiwork, at least the following shall be 

agreed:  

1) the days to which the employee may allocate the working hours; 

2) the placement of the weekly rest period: 

3) the fixed working hours, if any, however, not their placement between 23:00 and 06:00; 

4) the working time applicable after expiration of the agreement on flexiwork. 

In flexiwork, the weekly regular working time may not average more than 40 hours over a period 

of four months. 

An agreement concerning flexiwork shall be concluded in writing. A contractual provision 

concerning flexiwork may be terminated to expire at the end of the period following the current 

adjustment period. 

Section 14 

Working time account 

In this Act, a working time account means a system for reconciling working time and time off by 

which working time, earned time off or monetary benefits converted into time off may be saved 

and combined. The employer and the shop steward or, when one has not been elected, the 

elected representative or other employee representative or the employees or a group of 

employees collectively may agree in writing on the introduction of a working time account. An 

agreement on a working time account concluded by a representative shall be binding on those 

employees whom the representative is deemed to represent. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
11(35) 

At least the following shall be agreed in the agreement: 

1) the items on which provisions are laid down in subsection 3 that may be transferred into the 

working time account; 

2) the limits for saving into the working time account;  

3) dissolution of the working time account and compensation of the items held in the account at 

the time of its dissolution; 

4) the principles for taking time off and the procedures by which time saved in the working time 

account shall be taken as time off. 

With the consent of the employee, given individually for each occasion or for a short fixed term, 

the following may be transferred into the working time account: 

1) hours of additional work and overtime; 

2) accumulated flexible working hours up to a maximum of 60 hours per four-month reference 

period; 

3) monetary benefits based on law or agreement after these have been converted into time-based 

units. 

However, pay payable on regular working time, allowances or receivables of an indemnificatory 

nature or a monetary benefit after it has matured for payment may not be transferred into the 

working time account. The accumulated working time saved into the working time account also 

may not exceed 180 hours over the calendar year, nor may the total accumulation in the working 

time account exceed an amount equivalent to six months’ working time. 

When transferring the items referred to in subsection 3 into the working time account, the terms 

applicable to these items on the basis of law or agreement concerning conversion into time off or 

maturing of the benefit are replaced with the terms of the working time account. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12(35) 

An employee shall be entitled to be given time off saved into the working time account in the 

amount of at least two weeks per calendar year. When time off of more than ten weeks has been 

saved into the working time account, the employee shall be entitled to be given time off in the 

amount of at least one fifth of the accumulation in the working time account. At the request of the 

employee, the employer shall give the time off within the following six months. When the 

employer determines the placement of the time off, the employee shall be entitled to convert the 

time off into a monetary compensation. 

Section 15 (674/2022) 

Reduced working time 

When an employee, for social or health reasons other than the partial child care leave referred to 

in chapter 4, sections 4 and 5 of the Employment Contracts Act, wishes to work fewer hours than 

the regular working time, the employer shall strive to organise the work so that the employee can 

work part time. 

An agreement on the part-time work referred to in subsection 1 indicating at least the duration of 

the daily and weekly working time shall be concluded by the employer and the employee for a 

fixed term of no more than 26 weeks at a time. 

When an employee wishes to work fewer hours than the regular working time, in order to retire on 

partial early old-age pension or partial disability pension or to work part time during part-time 

absence due to illness, the employer shall primarily organise the work so that the employee can 

work part time. Correspondingly, the employer shall arrange the work in a way that enables part-

time work when an employee 55 years of age or over who has been employed by the employer for 

at least three years wishes to shorten the regular working hours. The reduction in working time 

shall be implemented in the manner agreed between employer and employee, taking into account 

the needs of the employee and the employer’s production and service operations. 

When refusing to organise the part-time work provided in subsection 1 or 3, the employer must 

give its reasons for the refusal. 

Chapter 5  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13(35) 

Exceeding regular working time and Sunday work 

Section 16 

Additional work and overtime 

Additional work and overtime require the initiative of the employer. When flexible working hours or 

flexiwork are in use, additional work and overtime must be expressly agreed. 

In following the general working time regime, daily overtime consists of working time that exceeds 

eight hours per day. Weekly overtime consists of working time that exceeds 40 hours per week 

without being daily overtime. When a shorter weekly working time than 40 hours has been agreed 

on, additional work consists of work performed in addition to the regular working time entered in 

the work schedule that is not overtime. 

In following the average regular working time regime, daily overtime consists of work performed in 

addition to the regular daily working time entered in the work schedule. Weekly overtime consists 

of work performed in addition to regular working time that is not daily overtime. When the 

average working time has been agreed to average at less than 40 hours per week, work 

performed in addition to regular working time shall nonetheless be regarded as additional work up 

to a week of 40 hours. 

In period-based work, overtime shall consist of work in excess of the regular maximum working 

time under section 7. When shorter regular working time per period than provided in section 7 has 

been agreed, additional work shall consist of work that exceeds the regular working time without 

exceeding the maximum hours per period under section 7. 

In following the flexible working hours regime, daily overtime consists of work in excess of eight 

hours per day and weekly overtime of work which is performed on days entered in the work 

schedule as days off and which exceeds 40 hours without being daily overtime. Work performed 

on the orders of the employer in addition to fixed working hours, due to which the maximum 

accumulation under section 12, subsection 2 is exceeded at the end of the reference period, shall 

also be regarded as overtime. Work performed in addition to regular working time that is not 

overtime shall be regarded as additional work.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14(35) 

In following the flexiwork regime, daily overtime consists of work in excess of eight hours per day 

and weekly overtime of work that is performed during the weekly rest period agreed in the 

flexiwork agreement without such work being daily overtime. Work performed in addition to 

regular working time that is not overtime shall be regarded as additional work. 

Section 17  

Employee consent 

The consent of the employee is required separately for each occasion that the employee works 

overtime. However, employees may consent to overtime for short set periods when necessary for 

the organisation of the work. 

Employees may only be required to perform additional work with their consent unless additional 

work has been agreed in the employment contract. In such a case, employees shall be entitled to 

refuse additional work for justifiable personal reasons on the days off entered in the work 

schedule. 

When the employee’s regular working time agreed in the employment contract varies in the 

manner referred to in chapter 1, section 11 of the Employment Contracts Act, the employer may 

require the employee to perform additional work in addition to the working time entered in the 

work schedule only with the employee’s specific consent for each such occasion. The consent may 

also be given for a short period at a time. 

When agreeing to the stand-by duty referred to in section 4, the employee is deemed 

simultaneously to consent to the additional work and overtime required during the stand-by time. 

The employer and employee may agree that the employee, without giving separate consent, will 

be required to perform work that is essential in order for other employees in the workplace to 

work throughout their regular working time or that in shift work is necessary to exchange 

information at shift changes (preparation and completion work). Preparation and completion work 

shall not exceed five hours per week. 

When additional work or overtime are essential due to the nature of the work or for extremely 

compelling reasons, public servants and officeholders may not refuse such work.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15(35) 

Employees may be required to work on Sundays and public holidays (Sunday work) only when this 

has been agreed in the employment contract, or with the employee’s consent. However, no 

consent is required if the nature of the work is such that it is regularly performed on these days. 

Section 18 

Maximum working time 

The working time of an employee, including overtime, may not exceed an average of 48 hours per 

week over a period of four months. Provisions on the right of national associations of employers 

and employees to agree on the length of the adjustment period are laid down in section 34. 

In addition to the provisions laid down in subsection 1, the working time of motor vehicle drivers 

referred to in section 2, subsection 2 may not exceed 60 hours per calendar week. Provisions on 

the right of national associations of employers and employees to agree on the length of the weekly 

maximum working time of motor vehicle drivers are laid down in section 34. 

Section 19 

Emergency work 

An employer may require an employee to perform emergency work when an unforeseeable event 

interrupts or seriously threatens to interrupt regular operations or to put life, health, property or 

the environment at risk. Emergency work in addition to regular working time may only be required 

to the extent necessary and for a period of no more than two weeks. The provisions of sections 8, 

17 and 24–27 may be derogated from in emergency work. However, upon the conclusion of the 

emergency work, the working time shall be adjusted to no more than the maximum working time 

laid down in section 18 and the employee shall be given a compensatory rest period in the manner 

laid down in section 25, subsection 4 and section 28, subsection 2. 

An employer shall, without delay, notify the occupational safety and health authority in writing of 

the cause, scale and expected duration of the emergency work. The employer shall provide the 

shop steward representing the employees performing emergency work or, when no shop steward 

has been elected, the occupational safety and health delegate or the elected representative or 

other employee representative with an opportunity to attach an opinion with the notification. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
16(35) 

Having reviewed the matter, the occupational safety and health authority may either leave the 

matter as it stands notified or take action to limit or discontinue the emergency work. 

Section 20 

Remuneration payable for additional work, overtime and Sunday work 

The remuneration paid for additional work shall be at least equal to the pay for agreed working 

time.  

Pay plus 50% for the first two hours worked and pay plus 100% for each subsequent hour shall be 

payable for daily overtime. Pay plus 50% shall be payable for weekly overtime. 

In the case of period-based work which has continued for an entire two-week or three-week 

period, the remuneration for the first 12 or 18 hours of overtime, respectively, shall be pay plus 

50% and for hours of overtime in excess of these, pay plus 100%. When the period has been 

interrupted due to the expiration of the employee’s employment relationship or the inability of the 

employee to work due to holiday, illness or other acceptable reason, the number of hours by which 

the average working time in the interrupted period is longer than eight hours in the days spent 

working shall be calculated. For the first two average overtime hours in this number of hours, pay 

plus 50% shall be payable and for the subsequent hours, pay plus 100%. 

When regular working time is based on a collective agreement on exceptional regular working time 

concluded pursuant to section 34, subsection 5 or on a derogation permit referred to in section 39, 

subsection 1, paragraph 1, the agreement or permit shall mention the criteria for calculating the 

premium payable for overtime. 

Pay plus 100% shall be payable for Sunday work. When the work performed also constitutes 

overtime, the overtime remuneration determined in accordance with subsections 2 and 3 and 

calculated from the employee’s pay without any increments shall also be paid thereon. 

Section 21 

Converting remuneration for additional work or overtime and Sunday work increments 

into leave 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17(35) 

It may be agreed to convert pay due for additional work or overtime as well as the Sunday work 

increment either in part or in full into equivalent time off during the employee’s regular working 

time. The duration of the time off corresponding to the overtime shall be calculated according to 

the provisions laid down in section 20 concerning remuneration of overtime. 

Unless otherwise agreed, the time off shall be given within six months of the performance of the 

additional work, overtime or Sunday work. When the employer and the employee do not agree on 

the placement of the time off, the employer shall determine its placement unless the employee 

requests monetary remuneration. The employer and the employee may agree to transfer the time 

off into the working time account referred to in section 14 or to combine it with the carried-over 

holiday referred to in section 27 of the Annual Holidays Act (162/2005). 

Section 22  

Expiration of employment contract during ongoing adjustment period 

When working time has been organised or agreed on an average basis or when flexible working 

hours or flexiwork have been agreed pursuant to this Act and the employment relationship expires 

before the working time has averaged at 40 hours per week, the number of average working 

hours per week in excess of 40 hours shall be calculated and remuneration equivalent to pay for 

regular working time shall be paid on these excess hours. 

When the average working time per week is less than 40 hours or agreement-based shorter 

regular working time, the employer shall have the right to deduct the equivalent amount from the 

employee’s pay. 

Section 23 

Calculation of the basic amount of remuneration for additional work and overtime 

When the pay of an employee is determined according to a unit longer than an hour, the pay 

payable per hour shall be calculated by dividing the agreed pay by the number of regular working 

time hours. In the case of performance-based pay, the hourly pay shall be calculated by dividing 

the performance-based pay by the hours spent working. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18(35) 

Any fringe benefits included in pay shall be taken into account in pay for regular working time. 

Profit bonuses or equivalent payments, made no more than twice a year and independently of the 

employee’s performance, shall not be included in income payable for regular working time. 

By way of derogation from the provisions of subsection 1 above, it may be agreed that hourly pay 

is calculated by dividing the income paid for regular working time by an average divider derived 

from annual regular working time or by another divider which on average corresponds to the 

principles laid down in subsection 1. 

Chapter 6 

Rest periods 

Section 24 

Daily breaks  

When the employee’s daily consecutive working time exceeds six hours and the employee’s 

presence at the workplace is not essential to the continuity of the work, the employee shall be 

given a regular break of at least one hour during the shift, during which break the employee is 

free to leave the workplace. This break may not be placed at the start or end of the workday. A 

collective agreement notwithstanding, the employer and the employee may agree on a shorter 

break of at least thirty minutes, however. When the daily working time exceeds 10 hours, after 

eight hours of work, the employee shall additionally have the right to take a break of no more than 

thirty minutes. 

When working time in shift work or period-based work exceeds six hours, the employee shall be 

given a break of at least thirty minutes or the opportunity to have a meal during working time. 

Motor vehicle drivers shall be given a break of at least thirty minutes, in one or two sequences, for 

each work period of 5 hours and 30 minutes. 

Section 25 

Daily rest period 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19(35) 

During the 24 hours following the start of each shift, employees shall be given an uninterrupted 

rest period of at least 11 hours’ duration except for work performed during stand-by time. In 

period-based work, the daily rest period for reasons relating to the organisation of the work may 

be reduced to nine hours. When working flexible working hours or flexiwork, the daily period on 

the employee’s initiative may be reduced to seven hours. 

The employer and the employees’ shop steward or, when one has not been elected, the 

occupational safety and health representative or elected representative or other employee 

representative may agree on temporarily reducing the daily rest period, with the employee’s 

consent, to seven hours when required by the practical organisation of the work.  

When the organisation of the work or the nature of the operations requires, the rest period of 

employees may be reduced to five hours during no more than three consecutive daily rest periods 

at a time: 

1) in the case of shift work as provided in section 6 when the employee is changing shifts; 

2) when the work is performed in several periods over a single day; 

3) when the employee’s workplace and residence or the employee’s other workplace are located 

far from each other; 

4) in order to deal with an unforeseeable rush in seasonal work; 

5) in the context of accidents or risk thereof; 

6) in security and guard work that requires constant attendance to protect persons or property; 

7) in work that is essential for the continuity of operations. 

Rest periods in compensation of the daily rest period reduced to nine hours pursuant to subsection 

1 and the reduced daily rest referred to in subsections 2 and 3 shall be given to the employee in 

connection with the following daily rest period or, when this is not possible for compelling reasons 

due to the organisation of the work, as soon as possible and within 14 days at the latest. The 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20(35) 

compensatory rest period shall be given as an uninterrupted period and it may not occur during 

stand-by time. 

Section 26 

Daily rest period of motor vehicle drivers 

Motor vehicle drivers other than those referred to in section 2, subsection 2 shall, by way of 

derogation from the provisions laid down in section 25, be given an uninterrupted rest period of at 

least ten hours in each consecutive 24-hour period. 

When the driver’s transportation duties so require, the daily rest period referred to in subsection 1 

may, on no more than two occasions, be reduced to no less than seven hours in seven consecutive 

24-hour periods. 

Section 27 

Weekly rest period 

Working time shall be organised in such a manner as to give the employee once in every seven 

days an uninterrupted rest period of at least 35 hours. Whenever possible, this rest period shall 

occur around a Sunday. However, the weekly rest period may be organised to average 35 hours 

over a period of 14 days. The rest period shall consist of at least 24 consecutive hours in each 

seven-day period. 

In continuous shift work, the rest period may be organised to average 35 hours over a period of 

no more than 12 weeks. However, the rest period shall consist of at least 24 consecutive hours in 

each seven-day period. When required by the organisation of the work and with the employee’s 

consent, the rest period may be organised in the manner referred to above. 

When the employee’s daily working time does not exceed three hours, the employee may be given 

a rest period of at least 24 consecutive hours instead of 35 hours once in every seven days. 

Section 28 

Derogations from weekly rest periods 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21(35) 

The provisions of section 27 may be derogated from when the employer, in order to maintain the 

continuity of its operations, requires the employee temporarily to work during the employee’s rest 

period or when reasons relating to the technical nature or the organisation of the work do not 

allow some employees to be fully relieved of work. 

The employee shall be compensated for time spent working during the weekly rest period as soon 

as possible and no later than within three months of the performance of the work by reducing the 

employee’s regular working time by an amount of time equivalent to the forfeited rest period. Such 

work may also be compensated for, with the employee’s consent, by paying, in addition to possible 

remuneration for overtime and Sunday work increments, a separate monetary increment 

determined according to the basic amount of overtime remuneration referred to in section 23. 

Chapter 7 

Working time records 

Section 29 

Working time adjustment scheme 

When working time has been organised on the basis of an average and flexible working hours or 

flexiwork are not in use, the employer shall prepare in advance a scheme for adjusting working 

time. The scheme shall indicate at least the regular working time in each week. The adjustment 

scheme shall be prepared so that it covers the period during which regular working time shall 

adjust to the average provided or agreed. 

When preparing or intending to change the working time adjustment scheme, the employer shall 

provide the shop steward or, when one has not been elected, the elected representative or other 

employee representative with an opportunity to voice their opinion. Adequate time shall be 

provided to review the draft scheme. 

Any changes in the working time adjustment scheme shall be notified to employees well in 

advance. 

Section 30 

Work schedule 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22(35) 

A work schedule indicating the start and end time of employees’ regular working time and the 

times of the breaks referred to in section 24 shall be prepared for each workplace. The work 

schedule shall be prepared for the same time period as the working time adjustment scheme 

unless this is extremely difficult due to the length of the adjustment period or the irregularity of 

the work performed. The work schedule shall be prepared for as long a period as possible, 

however for not less than one week. In preparing the work schedule, the employer shall provide 

employees or the employee representative referred to in section 29 with an opportunity to voice 

an opinion when a request is made to this effect. The employer shall retain the work schedules at 

least until the end of the claim period provided in section 40 unless the information appears in the 

working hours register. 

Employees shall be informed in writing of the work schedule well in advance and no less than one 

week prior to the start of the period covered by the work schedule. Thereafter the work schedule 

may only be changed with the employee’s consent or for a compelling reason relating to the 

organisation of the work.  

In work where the placement of regular working hours does not vary or in which flexible working 

hours or flexiwork are in use, the work schedule may be issued for an indefinite period, however. 

The agreement on flexible working hours or flexiwork shall replace the work schedule when it 

indicates the principles applicable to the placement of working hours. 

Subsection 4 was repealed by Act 746/2022. 

Section 30a (746/2022) 

Requirements concerning variable hours contracts in shift planning 

In variable hours contracts, entering a shift in the shift roster requires the employee’s consent if 

the working hours:  

1) are outside the days of the week or times referred to in chapter 2, section 4, subsection 3, 

paragraph 9 of the Employment Contracts Act; 

2) exceed the minimum working time agreed in the variable hours contract. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23(35) 

Consent may be given for each occasion separately or for a short period at a time. 

If, in accordance with an act or a collective agreement, the employer cancels a shift entered in the 

shift roster or otherwise agreed upon later than 48 hours before the start of the shift and the 

employee is not considered to be entitled to pay or compensation on the basis of chapter 2, 

section 12 of the Employment Contracts Act, the collective agreement or the binding nature of the 

agreed shift, the employee shall be paid reasonable compensation for the inconvenience caused by 

the cancellation. 

Section 31 

Motor vehicle driver’s personal logbook 

Employers shall issue to motor vehicle drivers employed by them personal logbooks for the 

purpose of monitoring their daily working hours. The driver shall keep the logbook indicating the 

start and end times of working hours, rest periods and breaks. The entry for each period shall be 

made in the logbook as soon as the period ends and before the next period starts. A tachograph 

may be used instead of a logbook. 

When driving, motor vehicle drivers shall keep with them the logbook for the current week and the 

logbook for the final day of driving for the previous week. Employers shall keep logbooks for a 

period of one year. 

Section 32 

Working time register  

Employers shall record the hours worked and the remuneration paid thereon for each employee. 

The register shall contain entries on the regular, additional, overtime, emergency and Sunday work 

hours and the remuneration paid, or on all hours worked and the overtime, emergency and 

Sunday work hours separately and the increments paid. When an agreement as referred to in 

section 38 has been concluded with the employee, the estimated number of additional, overtime 

and Sunday work hours per month shall be recorded in the working time register. The employer 

shall keep the working time register until the end of the claim period provided in sections 40 and 

41. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24(35) 

In flexiwork the employee shall provide the employer with a list of hours worked during regular 

working time for each pay period such that the list indicates the weekly working time and weekly 

rest period. By way of derogation from subsection 1, the employer shall be obliged to record in the 

working time register only this information provided by the employee. 

When the employer and the employee have agreed on the working time account referred to in 

section 14, the employer shall keep a record of the items saved by the employee in the working 

time account and of taking the items transferred into the working time account in the form of time 

off.  

At their request, employees shall be entitled to obtain a written report of entries concerning them 

in the work schedules and working time register. At their request, the employer shall provide the 

occupational safety and health authority and a shop steward, elected representative or other 

employee representative representing an employee with a copy of the working time register, the 

agreements concluded pursuant to sections 11, 13 and 36, the working time adjustment scheme 

referred to in section 29 and the work schedule referred to in section 30. 

Chapter 8 

Mandatory nature of provisions 

Section 33 

Mandatory nature of provisions 

Any agreement restricting the benefits provided to employees in this Act shall be null and void 

unless otherwise provided in this Act. 

Section 34  

Derogation by collective agreement 

An employer or a national association of employers and a national association of employees may 

agree by collective agreement on working time by way of derogation from the provisions laid down 

in section 5, section 6, subsection 1, and sections 7 and 9. Regular working time based on a 

collective agreement may average no more than 40 hours per week over a period of no more than 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25(35) 

52 weeks. By the collective agreement referred to above, it may moreover be agreed that in 

flexiwork referred to in section 13, regular working time may average no more than 40 hours per 

week over a period of no more than 26 weeks. 

National associations of employers and employees may, by a collective agreement (national 

collective agreement), agree otherwise than provided in this Act:  

1) in section 4 concerning stand-by; 

2) in section 8 concerning the duties in which night work may be required, the night worker’s 

maximum working time over a period of 24 hours, the adjustment of night working hours and their 

placement, however, such that night work comprises a period of at least seven hours including the 

hours between 24:00 and 05:00; 

2 a) in section 8a concerning the right of the night worker to transport to work;(1405/2019) 

3) in section 12, subsection 2 concerning the limits, maximum accumulation and length of 

reference period of flexible working hours; 

4) in section 15, subsection 2 concerning the duration of the fixed-term agreement concerning 

reduced working time; 

5) in section 17 concerning the consent for Sunday work; 

6) in section 18 concerning extending the adjustment period for maximum working time to six 

months; for technical or work organisation reasons, the adjustment period may be extended to no 

more than 12 months; 

7) in section 20 concerning the remuneration payable for additional work, overtime and Sunday 

work; 

8) in section 21 concerning giving the remuneration for additional work, overtime and Sunday 

work in the form of time off; 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26(35) 

9) in section 22 concerning the expiration of an employment contract during an ongoing 

adjustment period; 

10) in section 23 concerning the calculation of the basic amount of remuneration for additional 

work and overtime; 

11) in section 24 concerning daily breaks; 

12) in section 25 concerning daily rest, however, not the compensatory rest period referred to in 

subsection 4; 

13) in section 26 concerning the daily rest period of motor vehicle drivers; 

14) in section 27 concerning the weekly rest period; 

15) in section 28, subsection 1 concerning derogation from the weekly rest period; 

16) in section 29 concerning the working time adjustment scheme;  

17) in section 30 concerning the work schedule: (746/2022) 

18) in section 30a concerning an employee’s consent and the compensation and the cancellation 

time in connection with the cancellation of a work shift, provided that the agreement satisfies the 

requirements laid down in Article 14 of Directive (EU) 2019/1152 of the European Parliament and 

of the Council on transparent and predictable working conditions in the European Union. 

In respect of the work of motor vehicle drivers referred to in section 2, subsection 2, by way of 

derogation from subsection 2, paragraphs 2 and 6 above, for technical or work organisation 

reasons the following may be agreed by collective agreement: 

1) the daily maximum working time and adjustment of night working time provided in section 8; 

2) extending the adjustment period provided in section 18, subsection 1 to six months; 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
27(35) 

3) exceeding the weekly maximum working time of 60 hours provided in section 18, subsection 2. 

Working time equivalent to the flexitime referred to in section 13 and an arrangement equivalent 

to the working time account referred to in section 14 or another equivalent arrangement that may 

be taken into use instead of the working time account referred to in this Act may also be agreed 

by national collective agreement. However, the use of the flexiwork and working time account 

referred to in the Act may not be prohibited by collective agreement. 

The daily working time limitations provided in section 5 and the provisions concerning the daily 

rest period laid down in section 25 notwithstanding, exceptional regular working time in work that 

is only performed from time to time during the daily working time in which the employee is 

required to be prepared to work may be agreed by national collective agreement. In such a case, a 

compensatory rest period equivalent to a rest period laid down in section 25 shall be secured for 

the employee immediately following the end of the shift. (1067/2021) 

Exceeding the maximum working time provided in section 18 in respect of doctors who are on call 

at hospitals or veterinary hospitals may additionally be agreed by national collective agreement 

when the maximum working time under the said section is exceeded due to on-call duty that 

constitutes working time taking place at the workplace. The use of working time in excess of the 

maximum working time shall be agreed between the employer and the employee when the 

requirements laid down in the collective agreement are met and within the limits determined in the 

agreement.  

The provisions of the collective agreement referred to above in subsections 1–5 may be applied by 

the employer also in the employment of employees who are not bound by the collective 

agreement but in the employment of whom the employer, under the Collective Agreements Act 

(436/1946), shall comply with the provisions of the collective agreement. The provisions may 

continue to be complied with after the expiration of the collective agreement until the entry into 

force of a new collective agreement in employment where the provisions could be applied if the 

collective agreement remained in force. When a new collective agreement is not concluded within 

six months of the expiration of the previous collective agreement, both parties shall have the right 

to announce that the application of the provisions of the collective agreement concerning regular 

working time shall cease at the end of the currently ongoing adjustment period. Such 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28(35) 

announcement shall be made no less than two weeks prior to the end of the currently ongoing 

adjustment period. 

The provisions laid down in this section on employers and national employers’ associations shall 

also apply to the relevant State negotiating authority and other contractual authority, 

municipalities, joint municipal authorities, KT Local Government Employers, parishes, unions of 

congregations and other parish unions, the Commission for Church Employers, the Orthodox 

Church, and the Government of Åland and the Commission for Local Authority Employers of the 

Province of Åland. The collective agreement for employees or public servants referred to in this 

section may be concluded by the parties referred to section 46, subsection 1 of the Act on 

Parliamentary Public Officials (1197/2003) in the case of Parliament, the parties referred in section 

42, subsection 1 of the Act on Public Officials of the Bank of Finland (1166/1998) in the case of the 

Bank of Finland, and the parties referred to in section 11, subsection 2 of the Act on the Social 

Insurance Institution of Finland (731/2001) in the case of the Social Insurance Institution of 

Finland. 

Section 35 

Provisions by way of derogation from law in generally applicable collective agreements 

Employers which are required to comply with a generally applicable collective agreement as 

referred to in chapter 2, section 7 of the Employment Contracts Act may, within its scope of 

application, also comply with the provisions of collective agreements concluded pursuant to section 

34 of this Act, however not the provisions agreed pursuant to section 34, subsection 2 that require 

local bargaining. The provisions may continue to be complied with after the expiration of the 

collective agreement until the entry into force of a new collective agreement in employment where 

the provisions could be applied if the collective agreement remained in force. 

Section 36 

Local agreement on regular working time based on generally applicable collective 

agreement 

When the possibility locally to derogate from the provisions of section 5, section 6, subsection 1, or 

sections 7 or 9 or to extend the adjustment period for average regular working time has been 

agreed by generally applicable collective agreement, a local agreement may be concluded within 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29(35) 

the limits permitted by the qualifying provision in the collective agreement and in compliance with 

the procedural rules laid down in the collective agreement with the exception of the provisions of 

the collective agreement concerning negotiation procedure. 

A local agreement may be concluded by the parties determined in the collective agreement. Where 

the collective agreement specifies the shop steward as a party to the local agreement but no shop 

steward has been elected, the agreement may be concluded on behalf of the employees by the 

elected representative referred to in chapter 13, section 3 of the Employment Contracts Act or by 

another representative authorised by the employees or, when no such person exists, by the 

employees or a group of employees collectively. 

When the employees have not elected the shop steward or other representative referred to in 

subsection 2, the employer shall provide them with an opportunity to elect a representative from 

among themselves prior to the start of the negotiations. 

Section 37 

Conclusion and termination of local agreement 

The agreement on regular working time referred to above in section 36 shall be concluded in 

writing unless the parties consider this unnecessary or unless otherwise provided in the collective 

agreement. An agreement intended to remain in effect for more than two weeks shall, however, 

always be concluded in writing. 

An agreement on regular working time concluded by a representative elected by the employees 

shall be communicated to the employees no later than one week prior to the start of its 

application. The agreement shall be binding on all employees whom the employee representative 

concluding the agreement shall be deemed to represent. However, employees shall be entitled to 

follow their previous working time regime by giving notification to this effect to the employer no 

later than two days prior to the application of the agreement. 

Unless otherwise provided in the collective agreement or agreed in the local agreement, an 

agreement concluded for an indefinite term may be terminated to expire on two weeks’ notice. An 

agreement on regular working time concluded for an indefinite term may be terminated to expire 

at the end of the working time adjustment period. A fixed-term agreement of more than one 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30(35) 

year’s duration may be terminated after four months from its conclusion in the same manner as an 

agreement concluded for an indefinite term. 

Section 38 

Payment of separate remunerations 

The employer and the employee may agree on the payment of the remuneration for additional 

work and overtime and the Sunday work increments referred to in section 20 as a separate 

monthly remuneration in respect of employees: 

1) whose primary duty is to manage and supervise the work of other employees; or 

2) who have concluded an agreement on flexiwork as provided in section 13. 

The agreement on monthly remuneration shall be concluded in writing. Unless otherwise agreed, 

the agreement may be terminated to expire at the end of the following pay period. When the 

agreement relates to flexiwork observed in the employment, the validity of an agreement on 

separate remuneration shall expire no later than at the expiration of the agreement on flexiwork. 

The employer and the employee may agree that the remuneration on preparation and completion 

work performed outside regular working time shall be paid separately for each pay period. The 

amount of the remuneration shall correspond to the remuneration for overtime determined in 

accordance with section 20. 

Chapter 9 

Miscellaneous provisions 

Section 39  

Derogation permit 

On the conditions determined by it, a regional state administrative agency may grant a permit: 

1) to derogate from the provisions of section 5 concerning regular working time and section 25 

concerning the daily rest period in work that is performed only from time to time during the daily 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31(35) 

working time in which the employees are required to be prepared to work, in such a manner as to 

secure for the employee the compensatory rest periods under section 25 immediately after the 

end of the shift; 

2) to apply period-based working time also in duties other than those referred to in section 7 when 

this is essential to the organisation of the working time; 

3) to work nights in work which due to the nature of the operations must be performed at night 

and which cannot be performed without difficulty solely during the day; 

4) to derogate from the obligation to prepare a work schedule laid down in section 30 when its 

preparation is extremely difficult due to the irregular nature of the work. 

When the regional state administrative agency has granted the permit referred to in subsection 1 

to an employer for a fixed term and there has been no material change in the circumstances since 

the grant of the permit, the employer and the employee representative referred to in section 36, 

subsection 2 may agree to extend the permit or exemption granted by the regional state 

administrative agency. (1067/2021) 

Section 40 

Claim period 

The right to any remuneration referred to in this Act shall lapse if a claim in the case of a 

continuing employment relationship is not filed within two years of the end of the calendar year in 

which the right to the remuneration arose. 

When leave given in lieu of monetary compensation has been agreed to be combined with carried-

over holiday, the claim in the case of a continuing employment relationship shall, by way of 

derogation from that provided in subsection 1, shall be filed within two years of the end of the 

calendar year in which the leave should have been given or otherwise the right to the 

remuneration shall lapse. 

A claim concerning time off saved in a working time account shall, in the case of a continuing 

employment relationship, be filed within two years of the end of the calendar year in which the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
32(35) 

leave saved in the account should have been given under law or agreement. The claim period shall 

be determined in accordance with this provision even if the agreement on the working time 

account does not meet the requirements laid down in section 14. 

After the end of employment, a claim concerning a receivable referred to in subsection 1 shall be 

filed within two years of the end of the employment or otherwise the receivable shall lapse. 

Section 41 

Claim period applicable to working time claims of State civil servants 

By way of derogation from the provisions laid down in section 40, the claim period applicable to 

claims filed on the basis of this Act and the working time regulations in the collective agreement 

for public servants by public servants within the scope of application of the State Civil Servants Act 

(750/1994) shall be determined in accordance with the State Civil Servants Act. 

Section 42 

Start of the day and week 

Unless otherwise agreed, the day starts at 24:00 and the week starts on Monday. 

Section 43 

Availability for inspection 

The employer shall keep this Act, any provisions, regulations and derogation permits issued 

pursuant thereto, any agreements concluded pursuant to this Act and generally applicable in the 

workplace, as well as the working time adjustment scheme and the work schedule in use available 

for inspection by employees. 

Section 44 

Working time violation 

An employer or its representative that intentionally or through negligence breaches the provisions 

on maximum working time laid down in section 18, on emergency work laid down in section 19, on 

minimum rest periods laid down in sections 25–27 or on the obligation to prepare the work 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33(35) 

schedule laid down in section 30 shall be sentenced to a fine for working time violation. 

(1067/2021) 

Motor vehicle drivers who intentionally or through negligence fail to make the entries provided in 

section 31 in the logbook or fail to keep the logbook with them while driving shall also be 

sentenced for working time violation. 

The provisions on allocation of liability between the employer and its representatives are laid down 

in chapter 47, section 7 of the Criminal Code (39/1889). 

Section 45 

References to certain penal provisions 

The punishment for failure to keep or impropriety in keeping the working time register referred to 

in section 32, subsections 1 and 2, and for working hours violation committed despite an 

exhortation, order or prohibition issued by the occupational safety and health authority is laid 

down in chapter 47, section 2 of the Criminal Code of Finland. 

The punishment for breach of the Driving Time and Rest Periods Regulation is laid down in section 

267 of the Act on Transport Services (320/2017). 

Section 46 

Opinion of Labour Council 

The Labour Council shall issue opinions on the application and interpretation of this Act in the 

manner laid down in the Act on the Labour Council and Derogation Permits Concerning Labour 

Protection (400/2004). 

Section 47 

Supervision 

The local agreements concluded pursuant to sections 11, 13, 14 and 36 and compliance with this 

Act shall be supervised by the occupational safety and health authority. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34(35) 

Chapter 10 

Entry into force 

Section 48 

Entry into force 

This Act enters into force on 1 January 2020. 

This Act repeals the Working Hours Act (605/1996). 

Any reference made to the Working Hours Act in force at the time of this Act’s entry into force 

shall be construed as a reference to this Act. 

Section 49  

Transitional provisions 

An employer may require an employee to work overtime up to the maximum amount provided in 

section 19 of the Working Hours Act in force at the time of this Act’s entry into force instead of the 

amount provided in section 18 of this Act for a period of one year from this Act’s entry into force. 

In employment where the employer is required to or may comply with either the provisions of the 

Collective Agreements Act or a generally applicable collective agreement as provided in chapter 2, 

section 7 of the Employment Contracts Act, the employer may apply any provisions of these 

differing from the provisions of this Act until the expiration of the validity of the collective 

agreement unless the collective agreement is amended before this. 

Section 38 of this Act shall apply only to employment contracts concluded after this Act’s entry into 

force. 

Any derogation permits granted for an indefinite period on the basis of section 14, subsections 1 

and 3, section 26, subsection 1, paragraph 14, section 27, subsection 1 or section 36 of the 

Working Hours Act in force at the time of this Act’s entry into force shall lapse after 12 months of 

this Act’s entry into force. Derogation permits granted for a fixed term shall lapse at the end of the 

fixed term. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35(35) 

The right to receivables arising prior to this Act’s entry into force shall lapse in the manner laid 

down in section 38 of the Working Hours Act in force at the time of this Act’s entry into force. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
